Adaptly Adaptly Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram Linkedin
Linkedin Pinterest Pinterest Email Previous Next Search Clock Company
Solutions Insights News Careers Contact Us Login trivago / Snapchat trivago
Drives Snap Ads Completions and Swipes Around Nasdaq Debut German company
trivagoâ€™s search and price comparison platform enables travelers to evaluate
1.3 million hotels in over 190 countries from their desktop, smartphone, or
tablet. The company aimed to drive awareness of its initial public offering
amongst a young, financially-savvy audience when it listed on the Nasdaq stock
exchange in December 2016. Adaptly, a Snapchat Ads Partner, used Snap
Lifestyle Categories to target ads to various audiences: users interested in
travel, business and political news watchers, bookworms, techies, and more.
trivago had short- and long-form versions of campaign creative. By swiping up
on the Top Snap, Snapchatters could access a nearly minute-long video in which
the trivago team rang the Nasdaq Opening Bell and celebrated their IPO in
Times Square. Adaptly tapped into the Snapchat technology integration to
optimize towards the top-performing ad creative on a daily basis and drive
efficiencies. Results 2.5MM impressions delivered 49k Top Snaps completed 16k
swipes to Long-Form Video Vertical Travel Office New York Share Categories
Swipe Ups Travel Video Views Back To Case Studies > Download the full article
Download Fill out form to access download Submit Let's Start Something
Remarkable Today Contact Us Be Remarkable General Inquiries
contactus@adaptly.com 212-300-8599, ext. 417 Media Information pr@adaptly.com
New York 386 Park Ave South Floor 17 New York, NY 10016 London 20 Midtown 20
Procter Street London, WC1V 6NX Chicago 747 N LaSalle Drive Suite 500 Chicago,
IL 60654 Los Angeles 1411 5th Street Suite 405 Santa Monica, CA 90401 San
Francisco 981 Mission Street San Francisco, CA 94103 Detroit 1449 Woodward
Avenue Detroit, MI 48226 Careers News Partners Our Vision Privacy Policy
Contact