Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
2/13/2013 2:02AM Oculus Rift Shakes Up Gaming With VR Headset Can gadgets like
Oculus Rift breathe new life into gaming hardware? Oculus VR CEO Brendan Iribe
demoed the headset to the crowd at D: Dive Into Media on Tuesday. Transcript
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100%
accurate.... CES this year or ... so yes it's here ... you know that it was
Samsung or anybody else who was the most exciting ... these are really ...
show off her ... it was a gaming headset for a company called Oculus Rift were
to show it to you right now ... one of them ... the Warriors ... when the
opportunity to sell them will tumble play ... sure I bring any read and on the
CEO of Oculus VR ... and that is ... this that yet we ... are making the
headset and this is the your gaming headset ... that really hope we
fundamentally changes the way ... people play the ... virtual reality headset
for Tory ally ... and I have not been on my ... mind and you never have to sit
down first yes those are not as big as the clockwork Orange ... some ... on
YouTube and you'll just ... hold of your eyes can like this ... aam and just
hold still and hold around the edges ... begin to move it up and down a little
bit like binoculars to get clear of who is a pretty clear ... there didn't ...
appear on a one second when the Kennett of it ... one day see what I'm seeing
... on the rear ... so now I'd take a bigger look what your life you can let
go your hands ... and you should be available yet ... what you are a beacon
with all the way behind ... you can go full three sixty you had disappeared
while I'm no wonder her ... that's great and mind and emotions that ... I he
should ... you know that's it that's one of the ... challenges that we have
the salt and so far it's getting better with time to hold ... the controller
Deere DE your while Italy has ... gotten to know all ... that ... use the left
analog stick to move around ... go for twice when she walked to this guys ...
it is going to this ... day has come to ... you ... you go in the middle of a
... civics tutor a little bit law credo that I ... can see that guy ... it was
up from the looks looks a little baggy Shannon talked you ... can raise their
own security ... this is the first time that people are able to actually be
fully immersed in the video game ... with three entered a sixty degree ... in
... looking around and tracking ... it's real time tracking say what you see
should move just this basses are able to move your head with but I know I'm a
little queasy but it's awesome ... um I was one of ... the ... how ... this
... um ... you definitely don't want to be drinking too much now hangovers and
B are probably Guinea go together ... so there are other headsets like this
reading your your argument is yours is the best as obese lag ... that's ...
that's the that's the ... there's nothing really designed for BP is still a
newbie or had set out there for gaming ... gold is not one of these ... nobody
has won yet ... we're very confident you will show up ... but how's this
period three D feel ... is that the car with a ... feeling ... promotions ...
it is truly amazing ... um ... the recent stimulus or was he won the audience
... no no no no no afterwards instances you really should check and it's quite
amazing ... so this is the isthe prototype mind this is a predator you ready
to pop the area ... great thank you the component of the ... woods he got it
likes to play a game that way the entire ... day ... or I'll or ... what's the
what's the what's the record it's amazing with the recommendation that I said
this is gonna start out as smaller experience a smaller dosage experience
right off I could take a lot of ... with any new for me to get a lot better
down it'll get faster ... you'll actually have positional tracking rate now
when you felt was just orientation he really looking when ... he moved the
swing that way it's not tracking yet ... and that will come and help the
overall feel ... that would use the field and it's it's crazy to read you
imagine that at some point in refined enough that day ... people can play all
day like this ... we expected to start out as seen in fifteen twenty minutes
thirty mins forty five minutes beginning after a few hours probably one two
hours ... and then we'll see when some point against you in getting ... them
all ... so that that is the idea right this is the key holiday like experience
to do with goggles for just yet ... and in a first step is to remove the
screen out of the equation so what you just ... tell you no longer saw
computer screen but are now in the second step is to start to get your hands
... in the games when you can actually see your hands ... you'll get your real
position you look down your body ... you have ... a weapons that are connected
to your hands move in sync with your hands ... and ... yet you should be the
character so this is a prototype to ... you guys are making them now right
they're actually manufacturing the things ... we are still we lost on
Kickstarter and it was one of this pretty exciting Kickstarter presentations
out in thirty days we sold seven ... thousand ... pre order ... I've done a
developer kit only developer kit starting day one is for people who make video
games I can I can buy one that would be of any use to be exact there's no harm
to the right so first to get out there for game developers ... they go they
make games the creek and different kinds of experiences whether they are ...
shooting games shooting games can be a little intense they can be little might
have ... um were you have a virtual pet bright and that once there's enough
content ... and we get all the technical on things ironed out in a technical
challenges and you're able to last for few hours and they're ... going to ...
go to the consumer market ... and join the consumer demands ... you guys will
... theoretically counterparts Cosell glasses to mean that all ... you I'd
marry that with an Xbox or in the eye with this ... if things progress we're
going now what are the walkway ... well two day wondering count sheets for the
PC um were also gonna be compatible with Android two you can connect a teacher
for mobile devices ... Lewis's work and how ... the computing power ... that
... PC writes indeed you want high-end competing are a lot of people ask why
or why cyclists unity this now why was nobody able to do this in the past ...
people imagine PR for the last ... fifty years and never worked ... it was
really that hurt worse on the red ... so PC hardware ... on ... the Indy on
different companies making these Sprint TGP using Steve is ... finally have
the enough computing power in the box ... you can drive this really stereo
three D experience ... at a fast enough really ... to to have the are so
intended to be within the year the end of this year and it did notion is Adobe
software model well loaded onto a PC ... gravity Research ... bursting onto
overconfidence and by the goggles ... separately ... what would you imagine
that with so ... ah well we yet we wanted as cheap as possible so the cheaper
it is ... a part time and enjoy the experience ... the developer kit are three
hundred dollars today ... we hope to keep a similar price point for the
consumer unit I'm ... again Michael Christie as possible so ... DirecTV might
be the last of the zipper chalky near half rethinking sold to some artwork
company or some gaming company ... ah well we are really and thus determining
the best experience and today we feel like I'm making the best experiences us
... going out of her own right now because ... we're able to put in all the
components that we walk ... um we don't have to nestling answer to that ... of
the bosses on and try to convince them why we need to use this Korea Urstadt
screen we define ourselves that she saw no us the previous owner and ... we
did see gone through this process recently accepted the work that well ... it
worked out very well for everybody was is very cool ... you will will the
scenes in the foyer of housing for working with the hallway ... after the show
us to find Brendan ... um sit down don't be drawn ... to check it out when it
tried to wager very much thank you ... think ... Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed
Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report
Good News for President Trump? 1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s
Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting
Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More → Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected
Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled
House elected Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle
with President Trump over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses
Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We
Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks
to Border Wall Demands as Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven:
One Family's Journey After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More →
Moving Upstream 9:56 Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to
Traffic and Sabbath 12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting
speed bumps in the U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one
in 10 residents has rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be
embracing them. WSJ’s Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and
potential lessons of the e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-
Tube Steak 12/11/2018 5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take
Extreme Measures 12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to
Identify Good and Evil 11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the
Cockpit 11/12/2018 5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job
Report Good News For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a
blockbuster jobs report despite a trade war with China and a partial
government shutdown. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for
President Trump. Photo: Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue
Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42 Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It
1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM
3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019
9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28
Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019
4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019
6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019
5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't
Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity
12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content 11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now
She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing violence from her hometown in Honduras,
Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands of miles with her daughter to the Mexico
- U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall Street Journal followed her as she weighed
her options to cross into the U.S., hoping to leave behind her past.
Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle to Keep a Son's Promise
12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence Stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China Manipulate Amazon
12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in the Restaurant
Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The
Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 DeepSense,
based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence to assess
job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest to
Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition Spurs
Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On