AllThingsD » licensing http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Apple Accuses Samsung of Sharing Confidential
Nokia Patent-Licensing Details http://allthingsd.com/20131003/apple-accuses-
samsung-of-sharing-confidential-nokia-patent-licensing-details/
http://allthingsd.com/20131003/apple-accuses-samsung-of-sharing-confidential-
nokia-patent-licensing-details/#comments Thu, 03 Oct 2013 17:01:11 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=362736 Apple has asked a California court to sanction
Samsung for inappropriately sharing with its executives a confidential patent-
licensing deal shielded by protective order in its landmark intellectual-
property case against the company. A new filing in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California on Wednesday shows Apple alleging that
some “Highly Confidential — Attorneys’ Eyes Only” licensing agreements it
provided to Samsung’s outside counsel were given to the Korean company’s
executives. Those agreements described the terms of an Apple-Nokia patent
license and were not to be shared with anyone beyond Samsung’s legal team.
But, according to Apple, they were. The company alleges that they somehow
found their way, unredacted, into the hands of dozens of Samsung executives,
including Dr. Seungho Ahn, who leveraged them during licensing negotiations
with Nokia. From the filing: According to a declaration from Nokia’s Chief
Intellectual Property Officer, Paul Melin, on June 4, 2013, in a meeting
between Samsung and Nokia licensing executives, Dr. Seungho Ahn informed Nokia
that the terms of the Apple-Nokia license were known to him. Specifically,
according to Mr. Melin, Dr. Ahn stated that Apple had produced the Apple-Nokia
license in its litigation with Samsung, and that Samsung’s outside counsel had
provided his team with the terms of the Apple-Nokia license. Mr. Melin
recounts that to prove to Nokia that he knew the confidential terms of the
Apple-Nokia license, Dr. Ahn recited the terms of the license, and even went
so far as to tell Nokia that “all information leaks.” Mr. Melin also reports
that Dr. Ahn and Samsung then proceeded to use his knowledge of the terms of
the Apple- Nokia license to gain an unfair advantage in their negotiations
with Nokia, by asserting that the Apple-Nokia terms should dictate terms of a
Samsung-Nokia license. Shady stuff, if it’s true — and troubling. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal has ordered Samsung to make Ahn available for
deposition, and scheduled a hearing on the matter for Oct. 22. Samsung
declined comment. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131003/apple-accuses-samsung-of-
sharing-confidential-nokia-patent-licensing-details/feed/ 0 Finally! Usain
Bolt Is Now a Playable Character in Temple Run 2.
http://allthingsd.com/20130801/usain-bolt-now-a-playable-character-in-temple-
run-2/ http://allthingsd.com/20130801/usain-bolt-now-a-playable-character-in-
temple-run-2/#comments Thu, 01 Aug 2013 14:00:33 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=347967 Usain Bolt should be a unlockable character on
Temple Run. — 9GAG (@9GAG) July 24, 2013 Nick J Webb / FlickrIt’s a match made
in sports-branding heaven on the App Store: The so-called “fastest man on
Earth,” Jamaican runner Usain Bolt, is now a playable character in the mobile
game Temple Run 2. The game’s creators, Imangi Studios, called Bolt’s addition
to the game an “obvious and fitting partnership.” In an email, Bolt told
AllThingsD that Imangi approached him and he said yes immediately — in part
because, “people have always been tweeting at me that I should be a released
character in Temple Run.” He added that he was involved in the design process
for his virtual runner character, the final version of which is outfitted in
“life-like” yellow and green, according to a press release. The character
costs 99 cents “for a limited time only.” Unlike, say, those NCAA athletes who
now have a clear path to sue EA, professional runners have had fewer
opportunities to be represented in videogames. However, this isn’t the first
time Bolt has been avatarized: Last year, he got his own mobile game, Bolt!,
which garnered positive reviews and 2.5 million downloads while Bolt was busy
earning three gold medals at the 2012 London Olympics. Temple Run 2 was one of
the most-downloaded apps for iOS and Android when it came out earlier this
year, but Onavo Insights estimates that its iPhone market share today is less
than half what it was in February. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130801/usain-
bolt-now-a-playable-character-in-temple-run-2/feed/ 0 California Wants to
Legitimize Ride Sharing http://allthingsd.com/20130730/california-wants-to-
legitimize-ride-sharing/ http://allthingsd.com/20130730/california-wants-to-
legitimize-ride-sharing/#comments Wed, 31 Jul 2013 00:51:02 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=347517 Photo credit: abrackin via photopin cc As taxi
drivers rallied in San Francisco today against “unlicensed, uninspected,
unregulated and under-insured taxis” and a San Francisco International Airport
spokesman said it was citing and arresting ride-sharing drivers (Lyft and
Sidecar told AllThingsD they don’t know of any arrests), the California Public
Utilities Commission went in a different direction. The CPUC proposed a non-
final decision that would create a new transportation category for for-profit
ride sharing and create stronger rules around it, including company licensing,
driver criminal background checks and $1 million per-incident insurance
coverage. Some of these practices are already instituted by the companies
involved — they have all obtained insurance, and they screen drivers
voluntarily. The regulator body wants to call services including Lyft,
Sidecar, InstantCab and Uber’s UberX “transportation network companies.” From
the filing: “The Commission is aware that TNCs are a nascent industry.
Innovation does not, however, alter the Commission’s obligation to protect
public safety, especially where, as here, the core service being provided —
passenger transportation on public roadways — has potential safety impacts for
third parties and property.” Uber and Sidecar had previously argued that they
shouldn’t be regulated as transportation services because they are simply
online information services. The CPUC didn’t agree with that. The CPUC had
previously asked Lyft, Sidecar and Uber to cease and desist, but they
negotiated an interim operating agreement instead. CPUC approval is a big win
for the companies, which are facing another cease-and-desist situation in Los
Angeles (which is indeed located in California, but taxis and limo-type
services are regulated differently and everyone wants to regulate ride
sharing). The companies are also currently banned at SFO, and Sidecar today
shared with AllThingsD a notice it sent to drivers advising them not to accept
trips to the airport. Here’s the proposed decision, and a flyer for the rally
against ride sharing today. CPUC Decision Public Flyer ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130730/california-wants-to-legitimize-ride-
sharing/feed/ 0 Take a Trip Down Music-Startup Memory Lane. Don't Trip on All
the Craters. http://allthingsd.com/20130713/take-a-trip-down-music-startup-
memory-lane-dont-trip-on-all-the-craters/ http://allthingsd.com/20130713/take-
a-trip-down-music-startup-memory-lane-dont-trip-on-all-the-craters/#comments
Sat, 13 Jul 2013 21:35:31 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=341741 Thanks to
Jason Herskowitz for popping this into my feed this morning: A collection of
digital music companies’ logos, circa 2007. It comes from Chicago-based
designer Jadam Kahn. (Chrome tells me the page I found it on has malware, but
Safari doesn’t seem to have any issues with it. So click at your own risk.)
First reaction when I saw this: Look at all of those vaporized companies!
Anyone who’s considering starting, joining or funding a music startup today
should be legally required to stare at this deadpool for at least a day. And
then they should be required to speak to someone who used to work in digital
music. Because everyone I know who has tried it — and doesn’t work for Apple,
Amazon or Google — vows to never, ever return. Second reaction: Wouldn’t any
collection of startup logos from 2007 be littered with dead companies? And,
actually, a surprising number of these music guys have survived, and a couple
have even prospered. Slacker, eMusic and Rhapsody, for instance, are still
grinding it out. Shazam just convinced Carlos Slim to give it $40 million as
it tries pivoting into TV. And Pandora stuck around long enough to go public,
and investors are now rewarding it with a $3.3 billion valuation.* So it’s
entirely possible that someone who is entranced with the idea of making
digital music work, for real, can stare at this list and find inspiration for
putting together another music startup. Perhaps they’ll tell themselves that
things are a lot different now than they were back in 2007: There’s an entire
smartphone ecosystem that didn’t exist back then, for instance. And you can no
longer accuse the big music labels of reflexively trying to stamp out new
entrants to the market. In some cases, they’ve even become sort of
enthusiastic about the idea. (See: Spotify, sort of.) Okay, then! Go for it.
But do take one last look at this list, from Amie Street to Zune, before you
jump in. The water’s deep. *(Sirius and XM, post-merger, are doing even
better, market cap-wise, with a $24 billion valuation. But I don’t really
consider those guys a digital music play.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130713/take-a-trip-down-music-startup-memory-lane-
dont-trip-on-all-the-craters/feed/ 0 Hulu Bids Depend on TV-Show Rights
http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-show-rights/
http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-show-rights/#comments
Sat, 06 Jul 2013 18:05:53 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=339565 The big media
companies that created Hulu endowed the online video provider with arguably
its most valuable asset: Access to the current seasons of hit network-TV
shows. Now, as an auction of the site enters its final stages, with bids due
Friday, the media-company owners are trying to strike a balance between
maintaining Hulu’s access to that programming while retaining their ability to
strike big-ticket licensing deals with others. Read the rest of this post on
the original site ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-
show-rights/feed/ 0 Silver Lake Abandons Hulu Purchase Effort, as Final
Bidding Deadline Arrives Today http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-lake-
abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-final-bidding-deadline-arrives-today/
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-lake-abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-
final-bidding-deadline-arrives-today/#comments Fri, 05 Jul 2013 15:36:17 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=339316 According to sources close to the situation,
Silver Lake will not make a follow-on bid to buy the Hulu premium video
service. The giant private equity firm had been allied in the effort with the
powerful Hollywood talent agency, WME, which it has invested in. The winnowing
of bidders should become clearer after today, which is the final deadline for
offers in what feels like the longest-running sale of an asset ever. Hulu is
owned by 21st Century Fox (formerly News Corp), Disney and Comcast. The trio
of media giants have had an uneasy relationship with each other and with the
service itself since it was launched many years ago. Thus it has been on the
block several times over the years, although this one has been the most
serious effort to resolve its fate. But sources have cautioned that it could
turn out that no sale happens if the bids do not come in at levels of about $1
billion. Until now, all of the bids have been nonbinding, with a range of
players all making various declarations of interest. Among the many tire-
kickers: Yahoo, DirecTV, Time Warner Cable, Guggenheim Partners, a joint bid
by the Chernin Group and AT&T;, as well as Silver Lake/WME. Silver Lake’s
departure from the main group is probably not a surprise, said sources, since
it did not sweeten its second bid as part of this process. That said,
depending on how the next and more serious round goes, it could later align
itself with one of the bidders left. In that, multiple sources now expect that
the multiplayer competition to buy Hulu will come down to four of those:
DirecTV, Guggenheim Partners, Time Warner Cable and the Chernin/AT&T; effort.
Each has pros and cons, of course, although DirecTV is considered the
frontrunner by many. Still, the situation is dicey, with worries focused on
issues such as the continuing departures of key management execs at Hulu. Most
problematic, though, are the various terms of the licensing rights for content
its owners are offering to whoever buys the service. A source at one bidder
called the terms “onerous,” while another said that the emergence of a number
of buyers for content has made it more difficult to build a big business at
Hulu going forward. Which, of course, begs the question of why they are
bidding at all. (Don’t you just love negotiation noise?) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-lake-abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-
final-bidding-deadline-arrives-today/feed/ 0 Pandora Says Musicians Will Get
More if It Pays Less. How Does That Work?
http://allthingsd.com/20130701/pandora-says-musicians-will-get-more-if-it-
pays-less-how-does-that-work/ http://allthingsd.com/20130701/pandora-says-
musicians-will-get-more-if-it-pays-less-how-does-that-work/#comments Mon, 01
Jul 2013 18:53:33 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=338239 The latest round of
Pandora vs. the music business is really complicated, because music licensing
is really complicated.* It’s also very simple: Pandora wants to spend less
money on music rights every time it streams a song over the Web. Many people
who own music rights want Pandora to spend more. But wait a minute. Doesn’t
Pandora say that’s not true? In a blog post published last week, founder Tim
Westergren said Pandora is actually “advocating for solutions that would grow
total payments to artists.” It’s a message he repeats all the time, as in
yesterday’s interview with the Financial Times: “Our goal is to have those
total payments go up.” Time for a translation: What Westergren and other
Pandora executives are really arguing is that if they spend less on each
stream of music they distribute, rights-holders will collectively end up with
more money. Perhaps they are not being as clear about that as they ought to
be, and perhaps that’s because the argument is a bit hard to accept. Because
Pandora’s rights payouts are based on usage. And Pandora users, who don’t pay
for the ad-supported service,** won’t listen to more or less music if the
company’s fee structure changes. So how would lower streaming fees end up
growing the pie? I went around and around on this with Westergren and outgoing
Pandora CEO Joe Kennedy at a press event in January during CES. They were
briefing reporters on the rights issue, out of a suite in the Wynn, in
anticipation of this very fight. I’ll do my best to paraphrase their
arguments: If Pandora’s rates are lower, then Pandora can stay in business.
And Pandora is growing — users were up 33 percent in May and usage was up 22
percent — so if that keeps up, the company would ultimately generate more
royalties for rights holders. If Pandora’s rates are lower, that means that
rates for every similar Web radio service would be lower, too. And that would
spur more people to enter the business and create even more usage and more
royalties. Does that argument convince you? Maybe that’s why Pandora doesn’t
spend much time talking about it. Instead, it spends most of its time talking
about “fairness” and “level playing fields.” And as far as that goes, the
company has a perfectly reasonable argument. Byzantine rights rules mean that
different kinds of radio stations have different fee structures, and
conventional radio stations have a tremendous advantage over the newcomers.
You can take either side of the debate, without getting into the minutiae of
rates and the Copyright Royalty Board, etc., with equal passion. Pandora can
argue convincingly that it is providing promotion for artists who really need
it, and that whatever money it does pay rights holders is a whole lot better
than nothing. And the music business can argue that Pandora is building a very
big business (current market cap: $3.4 billion) while rights holders get not
very much — at a time when they desperately need money to replace the
vaporized CD business. But I think Pandora could make a stronger case if it
were clearer about exactly what it’s trying to do. I’ve asked Westergren, and
CTO Tom Conrad, to provide me with a real number that reflects that rate
decrease they’re seeking, but neither of them wanted to engage on that.
Eventually I got this statement from a Pandora rep: “The nature of any
negotiation makes it unwise to discuss details publicly. We’ll save those
specifics for conversations with SoundExchange and the CRB. Tim does, however,
stand behind his statements that Pandora supports an outcome that would see
absolute artist payments go up.” * If you want the most cogent explanation of
the fight, read Jim Ledbetter’s recent Reuters piece. ** Pandora does have a
paid service, but that business makes up a fraction of its revenue. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130701/pandora-says-musicians-will-get-more-if-it-
pays-less-how-does-that-work/feed/ 0 Why Some Videogame Characters Get Toys,
and Others Don't http://allthingsd.com/20130624/why-some-videogame-characters-
get-toys-and-others-dont/ http://allthingsd.com/20130624/why-some-videogame-
characters-get-toys-and-others-dont/#comments Mon, 24 Jun 2013 18:00:25 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=335950 Contrary to conventional wisdom, games aren’t
entirely a hits-driven business. Innumerable games, particularly on mobile and
online, do just fine for themselves by attracting and catering to small,
passionate audiences. But if you want to see that favorite game character
cross over into the real world, maybe in the form of a toy or stuffed animal?
Yeah, you’re gonna need a bigger hit. That’s the word from Damon Lau, CEO of
toy company Round 5. And he should know — Round 5 manufactures merchandise for
Cut the Rope, the popular physics puzzler series that started on iOS three
years ago. Lau can’t disclose just how much Cut the Rope makes in toy land
(other than to say it does “very, very well,” and surpassed retailers’
expectations), but he has some keen insights on the lopsided world of game
licensing. For starters, toys can take a lot longer to develop than the games
they’re sprung from. Lau said the typical turnaround time for toys is nine to
12 months. By contrast, the first version of the early mobile hit Pocket God
took all of a week to go from idea to published app. However, Lau said that
when apps don’t flare out after a brief hurrah, they make the merchandising
guys’ mouths water. To move physical products on store shelves, licensers feed
off of brand and IP awareness. And people who game during their gap time at
the bus stop, on the toilet or lying in bed are getting a steady, concentrated
dose of awareness. A child may watch “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” for an
hour or two a week, Lau said, but TV shows go away, or their seasons end.
Unless they get pulled from the App Store, apps are just there, ready to be
consumed at all times of day, and in all seasons. “They can engage with the
brand every single day on the bus,” Lau said. As Samo Login, CEO of Talking
Animals app developer Outfit7, said previously, the belief is that engagement
is great, but it can’t be everything to everyone. Characters that begin on the
phone screen don’t have to stay there, Login said. So, what sort of a hit is
enough to start pitching toy ideas? For mobile games, Lau pegs the minimum at
200 million downloads, a threshold that Cut the Rope crossed some months after
signing on Round 5 in early 2012. To date, it has racked up about 330 million
downloads across the three games in the series, Lau said. Meanwhile, the
Talking Friends series is up to one billion downloads across its 14 games.
However, the 200-million rule only applies to apps with new IP and new
characters. Licensing toys based on characters from other media is different,
Lau noted, because consumers’ relationships there are more entrenched. “TV
programming has been researched, tested and proven to create brands since the
1950s,” he said. “When watching TV, consumers are relaxed, they take it in and
they accept what they are given because they have no choice. When playing
games, the player is engaged as an active participant … they are invested in
the characters in a way that they cannot be with TV.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130624/why-some-videogame-characters-get-toys-and-
others-dont/feed/ 0 Rambus Settles Chip Dispute With SK Hynix
http://allthingsd.com/20130611/rambus-settles-chip-dispute-with-sk-hynix/
http://allthingsd.com/20130611/rambus-settles-chip-dispute-with-sk-
hynix/#comments Tue, 11 Jun 2013 20:48:27 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=331173 Rambus Inc. said South Korea’s SK Hynix Inc.
has agreed to pay $240 million in order to settle a patent dispute over
memory-chip technology that has dragged on since 2000. The U.S. company said
the settlement underscores its new strategy to minimize litigation and work
more collaboratively with users of its technology. Ron Black, who was
appointed chief executive of Rambus a year ago, said the company is determined
to distance itself from another breed of licensing companies—sometimes called
“patent trolls” by their critics—that buy and sell patents but don’t make
inventions of their own. Rambus, by contrast, licenses technology developed by
its own engineers. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130611/rambus-settles-chip-dispute-with-sk-hynix/feed/
0 Tech Firms Back Obama Patent Move http://allthingsd.com/20130605/tech-firms-
back-obama-patent-move/ http://allthingsd.com/20130605/tech-firms-back-obama-
patent-move/#comments Wed, 05 Jun 2013 10:20:01 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=329180 Technology companies welcomed the Obama
administration’s decision to wade into the debate over patent litigation,
seeing a chance to stem a flood of lawsuits they say is hurting innovation.
The administration rolled out a package of executive orders and
recommendations for legislation Tuesday that takes aim at patent-holding
firms, or what critics derisively call “patent trolls” — companies that buy up
patents solely to press for licensing deals or payouts in court. Read the rest
of this post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130605/tech-
firms-back-obama-patent-move/feed/ 0 Yahoo's Bid for Hulu in $600M to $800M
Range -- Even as It Preps Other Big Deals in Mobile and Communications
http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-for-hulu-in-600m-to-800m-range-even-
as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-communications/
http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-for-hulu-in-600m-to-800m-range-even-
as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-communications/#comments Sun, 26 May
2013 18:55:17 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=325412 According to numerous
sources close to the situation, Yahoo has bid from $600 million to $800
million for the premium video site Hulu. The reason for the wide range is due
to the fact that the Silicon Valley Internet giant — similar to most bidders
in the new effort to acquire Hulu — has proposed several different prices
based on a variety of circumstances. That includes the length of the licensing
rights for content and how much control the programming companies selling Hulu
have over their media. At the same time and separately, according to sources
inside the company, Yahoo is also contemplating at least two other significant
purchases — in the $150 million to $200 million range — each for a mobile and
a communications company. It’s certainly an ambitious and busy M&A; agenda for
Yahoo’s CEO Marissa Mayer, who just forked over $1.1 billion in cash to
purchase youth-skewing blogging site Tumblr last week. Presumably, she is
interested in upping Yahoo’s longtime lackluster video efforts — it famously
lost out at the last minute on the acquisition of YouTube many years ago to
Google — as the arena becomes more critical to advertisers. But, said sources,
while allowing the bid to proceed, Mayer is more focused on the integration of
Tumblr, as well as other acquisitions that will bolster other key product
areas. Thus, sources said that the Hulu effort is being led at Yahoo by Los
Angeles-based Ian Weingarten, VP of corporate development, who works for M&A;
head Jackie Reses. AllThingsD.com first broke the news of that deal, as well
as Yahoo’s initial interest and subsequent bid for Hulu, which is owned by a
trio of media giants: News Corp., Disney and Comcast. The site, which has both
a subscription and an advertising business, was on the market in 2011, with
the hope for a bid of $2 billion that came with several years of programming
rights. The sale was pulled after those higher bids did not materialize. But
Hulu is on the market again in the most advanced effort to sell it so far,
with bids coming in from a range of suitors over the last week. Yahoo’s Mayer
and COO Henrique De Castro had met with Hulu’s team earlier this month for a
get-to-know-you, just after an effort to buy a large stake in French video
site Dailymotion was blocked by the government there. Besides Yahoo, others
interested in acquiring Hulu include: Separate bids from private equity firms
KKR, Guggenheim Digital and Silver Lake (in conjunction with Hollywood talent
agency William Morris Endeavor); Time Warner Cable; DirecTV; and the Chernin
Group. There could still be others, of course, though a deadline for initial
bids has passed. Interestingly, so far, neither Google nor Amazon have made
official efforts, perhaps because the pair already have robust video
platforms. Chernin’s bid, as had been widely reported, started in the $500
million range, which is interesting since the longtime media executive was
once the COO of News Corp. and was critical to Hulu’s creation. Translation:
He’d know just what the video platform is worth and how the place works. Of
course, low bids at the start are part of the normal process; sources close to
the owners said that any bids under $1 billion are unlikely to be accepted.
One thing is certain: Now comes what will look a lot like a very noisy game of
musical chairs, in which the various groups will vie for one-upmanship, even
as they talk to each other about possible joint efforts. Who the most
attractive candidate is, of course, will be much debated. In addition, there
is much disagreement over who and how Hulu should be sold by two of its
owners, Disney and News Corp., which have squabbled over its direction from
the start. (Comcast gave up its management rights as a concession to federal
regulators a few years ago, so is sitting on the sideline twiddling its giant
cable thumbs and doubtlessly wishing it could be a bidder, too.) No matter the
ceaseless bickering among giants, the trio of media conglomerates are
providing Hulu’s most valuable programming, largely television shows from
their broadcast networks. And that is the real point of the negotiating,
according to many involved. “Hulu is a very nice brand and technology, but the
entire negotiation will be about the control and price of the content,” said
one person close to the situation. “It’s the only thing that matters.” I sent
an email for comment to Yahoo, but expect no response. (Full disclosure: News
Corp. owns Dow Jones, which owns this site.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-for-hulu-in-600m-to-800m-range-even-
as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-communications/feed/ 0 Yahoo's Mayer
Has Met with Hulu Execs in a Preliminary Look-See at Premium Video Unit
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/#comments Tue, 07 May 2013 23:20:44
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=319219 According to numerous sources close to
the situation, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer recently met with top execs at Hulu,
the premium video service whose big media company owners have been considering
selling it for some months. Sources said Yahoo is “in the process,” although
the Silicon Valley Internet giant has not made any kind of formal bid. Other
players whom sources said are considering purchasing all or parts of Hulu
include: Former News Corp. COO Peter Chernin, who now has a successful and
well-funded multimedia and investment company called the Chernin Group;
Guggenheim Partners digital arm, which is led by former Yahoo interim CEO Ross
Levinsohn; and Amazon. Sources said Mayer also had an extensive getting-to-
know-you meeting, which was apparently not held at Hulu’s offices in Santa
Monica, Calif., along with COO Henrique De Castro. The discussion is taking
place in the wake of Yahoo’s failed bid — largely engineered by De Castro — to
purchase a majority stake in France Télécom’s Dailymotion video service, after
a top French government official said Yahoo could not own 75 percent of the
company. Had the deal — which was reportedly valued at $300 million — gone
through, it would have been the most significant by Mayer since she took over
at the company last July. Thus far, she has limited her purchases to small
mobile startup. While the meetings with Hulu are only preliminary, Yahoo has
been to this video rodeo before, having seriously considering buying Hulu when
it was previously being shopped by its owners, News Corp., Disney and Comcast.
(News Corp. also owns this site.) Of course, if Yahoo’s interest becomes more
serious, Mayer will have to make important visits to top execs at those media
giants, since they control the rights to critical content, and thus Hulu’s
value. As Peter Kafka noted in a previous post about Hulu’s possible sale,
“much hinges on the licensing rights News Corp., Disney and Comcast would
provide for the money-losing site, as well as what happens to the $300 million
debt its owners have taken on in the last year.” Without those rights, Hulu by
itself is a very pretty Web site and video platform, but not worth the
billions it would be with very long-term television rights, content that
attracts users. Currently, sources said its media owners are offering two to
three years of rights, with a lot of flexibility over removing content from
the site, which is not quite as attractive a deal (to say the least). But
video is a key component of Yahoo’s strategy going forward. Along with mobile
efforts, Mayer has explicitly told investors that video was a key to company
under her tenure. Coincidentally, today in an onstage interview at a Wired
conference in New York, Mayer broadly addressed the video issue when asked a
question about the topic, noting it was important across all of Yahoo’s
properties. “I think video is really important … video is something that we’re
all innately designed and born to experience, everyone is born being able to
watch and to hear,” she said. “Video is just this amazing format.” Mayer would
know that well, having been at Google when the search giant bought YouTube,
ironically snatching it at the last minute from a competing bid by Yahoo,
which was then led by Terry Semel. Since then, YouTube has become the most
important and powerful player in the space by far. Yahoo, despite being one of
the largest video players on the Web, has mostly been a lackluster competitor
in the arena, pinging over the years from creating original content to doing
branded deals with media companies, but never establishing a major beachhead
with consumers as Hulu did from scratch. Short of a full acquisition, there
may be a way for Yahoo to partner and invest in Hulu, instead of buying it
outright that works for all sides — owners get a new owner to foot part of the
bill and also increase distribution, and Yahoo can claim that it’s providing
users with exponentially more content that would help Yahoo’s long-declining
engagement problem. Sources said News Corp. and Disney have mulled scenarios
where one or both companies hang on to the site, while Comcast has no control
over Hulu’s fate, having given up its management rights to the site as a
concession to federal regulators. But the strength of the Hulu brand is clear
and it has had some success in building a more significant business. While a
lot of its video offerings are free, about four million people are paying for
a Hulu Plus subscription. Still, Hulu’s strength might be lagging, especially
given after talented founding leader Jason Kilar recently left. Last year,
Hulu was a top 10 video site, according to comScore. No longer — in a report
in March, it had dropped out of the top 10. While this likely has more to do
with methodology than real decline in Hulu ratings, it does show that while
it’s the biggest thing Yahoo could buy or invest in, Yahoo itself has plenty
of video views, many more than Hulu. The question for Mayer then is how much
of Yahoo’s multi-billon-dollar cash kitty she wants to bet on a big video
play. She might also be considering buying several smaller ones, said sources,
with Yahoo having also looked at some smaller video sites, including Blip and
Grab Media. A spokeswoman for Hulu declined to comment and Yahoo PR has not
responded to a query for comment (if ever). ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/feed/ 0 EU Presses Motorola
Mobility Over Patent Licensing http://allthingsd.com/20130506/eu-presses-
motorola-mobility-over-patent-licensing/ http://allthingsd.com/20130506/eu-
presses-motorola-mobility-over-patent-licensing/#comments Mon, 06 May 2013
20:38:52 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=318803 European Union regulators
Monday issued a formal complaint against cellphone maker Motorola Mobility,
over the Google Inc. unit’s bid to enforce a patent injunction against Apple
Inc. in Germany, adding to their record of intervention in the industry. The
European Commission said Motorola’s actions ultimately harmed consumers, after
the company sought court injunctions against Apple over the use of its
patents, instead of properly licensing the technology to its rival. Motorola
now has eight weeks to reply to the so-called statement of objections. Read
the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130506/eu-presses-motorola-mobility-over-patent-
licensing/feed/ 0 Tech Stocks Slump as Earnings Season Approaches
http://allthingsd.com/20130417/tech-stocks-slump-as-earnings-season-
approaches/ http://allthingsd.com/20130417/tech-stocks-slump-as-earnings-
season-approaches/#comments Wed, 17 Apr 2013 18:25:59 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=313245 Twitchy as ever, traders offloaded shares of
multiple technology stocks on Wednesday, resulting in share-price hits for a
string of companies across the board. Most notable was Apple’s hit, dropping
the company’s share price under $400 for a brief moment — the lowest point
since December of 2011 — before rising and hovering just above the $400 mark.
Apple’s dive came after multiple negative reports for the company, including a
Digitimes report claiming iPad mini shipments could tumble in the June quarter
due to lack of demand. Apple is expected to miss its estimates in its upcoming
quarterly earnings report, come April 23. Cirrus Logic, one of Apple’s
components suppliers, noted on Wednesday that it will record a net inventory
reserve of $23.3 million for the fourth quarter, citing lower volume of one of
the company’s top product shipments as an unnamed customer transitions from
one component to another in its products. Investors pounded its stock, sending
shares down almost 14 percent. Apple wasn’t alone in its dip downward on
Wednesday afternoon. Shares of Facebook were trading off almost 1.5 percent at
around $26.50, while the usually well-performing LinkedIn was down as much as
four points at $178, a 2.5 percent drop, before regaining some ground. Google
was also trading down around 1.5 percent this afternoon, following recent news
that software giant Microsoft had reached a licensing agreement with Foxconn
parent company Hon Hai, which from now on will pay royalties on every Android
and Chrome device manufactured by one of its companies. The Dow was off about
1 percent overall on Wednesday afternoon. Hewlett-Packard, the world’s leading
PC manufacturer, fell by more than 2 percent in the wake of a disappointing
earnings report from chipmaker Intel. Cisco Systems fell nearly 2 percent.
Chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices fell by more than 1.6 percent. Salesforce.com
fell by more than 1 percent. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130417/tech-stocks-
slump-as-earnings-season-approaches/feed/ 0 Google Shares Dip as Microsoft
Strikes Licensing Deal With Hon Hai http://allthingsd.com/20130417/google-
shares-dip-as-microsoft-strikes-licensing-deal-with-hon-hai/
http://allthingsd.com/20130417/google-shares-dip-as-microsoft-strikes-
licensing-deal-with-hon-hai/#comments Wed, 17 Apr 2013 16:37:58 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=313201 Shares of Google took a small drop on
Wednesday morning on news that Microsoft — the Redmond, Wash., software giant
sitting on a stockpile of software patents — had struck a licensing deal with
Foxconn parent company Hon Hai, effectively dealing a blow to Google in its
ongoing litigation struggles with Microsoft. Google took a hit of more that
1.5 percent this morning, dropping more than $12 to trade at close to $780 per
share. “We are pleased that the list of companies benefitting from Microsoft’s
Android licensing program now includes the world’s largest contract
manufacturer, Hon Hai,” Horacio Gutierrez, corporate VP and deputy general
counsel of the IP group at Microsoft, said in a statement. The agreement
between Microsoft and Hon Hai effectively means that any Android or Chrome
devices — such as handsets or notebooks — created by manufacturers in the Hon
Hai group will require royalty payments to Microsoft. “We recognize and
respect the importance of international efforts that seek to protect
intellectual property,” Samuel Fu, director of the Intellectual Property
Department at Hon Hai, said in a statement. “The licensing agreement with
Microsoft represents those efforts and our continued support of international
trade agreements that facilitate implementation of effective patent
protection.” Google has long fought Microsoft’s claims that parts of the
Android and Chrome software infringe on Microsoft’s vast collection of
intellectual property holdings. But a number of other hardware manufacturers —
like HTC, Samsung, LG and more — have already signed licensing agreements with
Microsoft to pay royalty fees for each Android or Chrome device manufactured.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130417/google-shares-dip-as-microsoft-strikes-
licensing-deal-with-hon-hai/feed/ 0 Hulu Isn't for Sale -- Yet. But Buyers Are
Asking … http://allthingsd.com/20130325/hulu-isnt-for-sale-yet-but-buyers-are-
asking/ http://allthingsd.com/20130325/hulu-isnt-for-sale-yet-but-buyers-are-
asking/#comments Mon, 25 Mar 2013 20:56:08 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=306515 Two years ago, Hulu’s corporate owners put the
video site up for sale — and then took it off the block. New version of a
similar story: Hulu’s corporate owners still aren’t sure what they want to do
with the site. But they are starting to hear from would-be buyers, anyway. One
of those potential purchasers is Ross Levinsohn, who worked hard to buy Hulu
when he was running Yahoo in 2011. Now Levinsohn is working for Guggenheim
Partners, the $160 billion fund manager that owns the Los Angeles Dodgers and
media assets like the Hollywood Reporter, and industry sources say he has
talked about buying the site again. Other companies that have kicked tires —
or indicated an interest in kicking tires — include Yahoo and Amazon, sources
say. No prospective buyer has made anything like a formal offer, though. And
no one can buy anything until Hulu owners Disney and News Corp. (News Corp.
also owns this Web site) figure out a plan for the video hub. They’ve been
trying to do that for a couple years, and in the interim there have been some
significant changes at the site. Last year early backer Providence Equity
Partners sold its stake, and in January CEO Jason Kilar announced his plan to
depart. But Disney and News Corp. still haven’t agreed on whether the site
should focus on an ad-supported model or a subscription one, and while both
have talked about buying out the other partner, those discussions are still
“fluid,” according to people familiar with the negotiations. (Comcast’s
NBCUniversal also owns a stake in the site, but gave up its management role a
few years ago in a concession to federal regulators.) And just like 2011, the
key issue for any Hulu buyer would be the content licenses Disney and News
Corp. are willing to extend to an outsider. In the past, the two companies
were unwilling to offer long-term deals for their content, which meant anyone
who bought Hulu was really buying a Web site and a chance to renegotiate for
new content deals in a couple years — that is, they weren’t buying much. Maybe
that will change when and if Disney and News Corp. resolve their differences.
If not, hard to see anyone buying the site this time around, either. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130325/hulu-isnt-for-sale-yet-but-buyers-are-
asking/feed/ 0 Cisco Systems Wins Patent Suit; VirnetX Shares Plunge
http://allthingsd.com/20130315/cisco-systems-wins-patent-suit-virnetx-shares-
plunge/ http://allthingsd.com/20130315/cisco-systems-wins-patent-suit-virnetx-
shares-plunge/#comments Fri, 15 Mar 2013 12:30:59 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=303920 A federal jury in Texas sided Thursday with
Cisco Systems Inc. in a patent-infringement case brought by VirnetX Holding
Corp., sending shares of the patent-holding company down 28 percent. The
verdict from a jury in the U.S. court for Texas’ Eastern District dealt a
serious blow to VirnetX, a Zephyr Cove, Nev., company that uses its patent
portfolio to seek revenue from licensing fees or court judgments. Most of
VirnetX’s revenue has come from a $200 million settlement reached with
Microsoft Corp. in 2010, according to research firm ISI Group. Read the rest
of this post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130315/cisco-
systems-wins-patent-suit-virnetx-shares-plunge/feed/ 0 Cut the Rope Creator
ZeptoLab Plans Four New Games in 2013, TV Show in 2014
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/cut-the-rope-creator-zeptolab-plans-four-new-
games-in-2013-tv-show-in-2014/ http://allthingsd.com/20130221/cut-the-rope-
creator-zeptolab-plans-four-new-games-in-2013-tv-show-in-2014/#comments Thu,
21 Feb 2013 19:51:03 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=296749 ZeptoLab CEO Misha
Lyalin doesn’t play cards, except for bridge. His Moscow-based games company,
though, is playing a more random card game. “We’re fortunate enough that we
got dealt an amazing card, and it’s called Cut the Rope,” Lyalin said of
ZeptoLab’s hit series. “But we still have to build up everything else. With
one card, you go into the game, and everybody has a hand, and you have
nothing.” That “everything else” includes two other games, Parachute Ninja and
Pudding Monsters, which combined with Cut the Rope’s three titles have
generated more than 300 million downloads across all platforms since 2010. The
company also licenses enough merchandise to choke even Cut the Rope’s
voracious star, Om Nom: Toys, apparel, food, board games, a digital comic book
and an ongoing animated Web series. And that list is growing. In an interview
with AllThingsD, Lyalin said ZeptoLab is planning four new games for this
year: Two new Cut the Rope games and two completely original titles. The
company is also working with Sony Pictures Television to develop a TV show, to
start airing in 2014. (Also coming soon to a TV near you: A half-hour animated
TV series based on Zynga’s social game FarmVille, not to mention Rovio’s Angry
Birds TV shorts, a few of which have already aired on Nickelodeon. Whether the
new generation of videogame-related shows can live up to the artistic
excellence of the “Super Mario Bros. Super Show” remains to be seen.) The CEO
declined to go into detail about the TV show, other than to say that it would
be Cut the Rope-themed. Lyalin said these sorts of licensed products are now a
part of the expected path for game companies that have a hit on their hands.
And that’s telling. Once, the iconic games that were able to command extensive
lines of merchandise were only available on a few devices approved by their
publishers (think Mario on Nintendo’s consoles or Sonic on Sega’s). Now,
stuffed Om Noms are both an extra revenue stream and a form of advertising for
the Cut the Rope brand, which freely follows users across different devices
and different operating systems. However, Lyalin stressed the need to keep
releasing new games above all else. “We’re a gaming company, first and
foremost,” he said. “That is where our strength is from.” So, where are those
games headed? With its fans primarily on mobile devices, ZeptoLab hasn’t yet
tried to break into the troubled home-console market, but Lyalin said he
hasn’t ruled it out. In particular, he said, Android-based game consoles (such
as the forthcoming Ouya) are “a given,” since the company’s games are already
on the Android OS. His bigger philosophy, though, is refreshingly frank, if
not terribly complex: A lot of platforms where ZeptoLab might go won’t
survive. But, Lyalin said, if they can attract an audience in the short term
and potentially expand Om Nom’s reach, then that’s enough. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/cut-the-rope-creator-zeptolab-plans-four-new-
games-in-2013-tv-show-in-2014/feed/ 1 Via Licensing Adds Two More to LTE
Patent Pool, but Big Names Still Missing http://allthingsd.com/20130221/via-
licensing-adds-two-more-to-lte-patent-pool-but-big-names-still-missing/
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/via-licensing-adds-two-more-to-lte-patent-pool-
but-big-names-still-missing/#comments Thu, 21 Feb 2013 14:00:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=296658 Patent firm Via Licensing is announcing
Thursday that two more companies — China Mobile and Deutsche Telekom — have
agreed to contribute their LTE intellectual property to a patent-licensing
pool. The company’s strategy is to gather enough intellectual property around
LTE in one pool that device makers can go to to license technology for their
products. However, many big names — and important LTE patent holders — still
aren’t on the list. Some key holders, folks such as Ericsson and Qualcomm, are
unlikely to join, since licensing is an integral part of their business. But
Via hopes to get enough of the rest of the big patent holders to make its pool
attractive to device makers. Via won’t say if any companies have actually yet
licensed the patents. Although China Mobile and Deutsche Telekom aren’t seen
as among the top holders of LTE-related patents, Via hopes they could inspire
others to sign up. Via Licensing CEO Roger Ross said that he is hopeful that
companies such as Huawei, LG or Apple might decide to join the patent-
licensing pool. “I don’t want to be overly optimistic,” he said, but added, “I
think we are going to get some of those very large patent holders.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/via-licensing-adds-two-more-to-lte-patent-pool-
but-big-names-still-missing/feed/ 0 Cisco's Patent Counterattack Fails
http://allthingsd.com/20130206/ciscos-patent-counterattack-fails/
http://allthingsd.com/20130206/ciscos-patent-counterattack-fails/#comments
Thu, 07 Feb 2013 01:04:11 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=292432 A federal
judge in Chicago has dismissed legal claims filed by Cisco Systems Inc.
against a licensing company, in a decision that dims the network-equipment
maker’s hopes of turning the table on so-called patent trolls. In a ruling
issued late Monday, U.S. District Judge James F. Holderman held that the
aggressive licensing strategy used by Innovatio IP Ventures LLC against Cisco
customers is protected by the U.S. Constitution. Companies such as Innovatio,
more formally known as patent-assertion entities, buy up patents and seek to
earn money from them through licensing and litigation. Read the rest of this
post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130206/ciscos-patent-
counterattack-fails/feed/ 0 Betable Hooks Up With Canada's Frima Studio to
Provide Real-Money Gaming Support http://allthingsd.com/20130204/betable-
hooks-up-with-canadas-frima-studio-to-provide-real-money-gaming-support/
http://allthingsd.com/20130204/betable-hooks-up-with-canadas-frima-studio-to-
provide-real-money-gaming-support/#comments Mon, 04 Feb 2013 17:14:33 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=291243 Gaming monetization platform Betable announced
Monday that it will begin working with Frima Studio, one of Canada’s largest
independent gaming studios, bringing real-money gaming to a number of the
company’s titles. Instead of Frima getting its own series of gambling licenses
— an arduous and somewhat time-consuming process — Frima is able to utilize
Betable’s existing licenses, expediting the entire process and letting the
studio push out real-money titles faster. Frima’s new games will come from
3OAK, its new division devoted to real-money titles. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130204/betable-hooks-up-with-canadas-frima-studio-to-
provide-real-money-gaming-support/feed/ 0 RIM Was Always Open to Licensing
BlackBerry 10, and It Still Is http://allthingsd.com/20130122/rim-was-always-
open-to-licensing-blackberry-10-and-it-still-is/
http://allthingsd.com/20130122/rim-was-always-open-to-licensing-
blackberry-10-and-it-still-is/#comments Tue, 22 Jan 2013 13:00:39 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=287229 Research In Motion has poured its heart and
soul into the development of BlackBerry 10, the new operating system with
which it hopes to reinvigorate its tarnished brand. But it’s not opposed to
licensing it to other hardware manufacturers if the opportunity were to arise.
According to CEO Thorsten Heins, RIM is not married to the idea of OS
exclusivity, nor is a deal to license BlackBerry 10 beyond the realm of
possibility. In other words, nothing is off the table, and the company is
keeping its options open. “The main thing for now is to successfully introduce
BlackBerry 10,” Heins told Die Welt. “Then we’ll see.” This isn’t anything
new. It’s a variation on what Heins has been saying for months now with
varying degrees of specificity. Last June, he even volunteered a theoretical
scenario. “You could think about us building a reference system, and then
basically licensing that reference design, have others build the hardware
around it — either it’s a BlackBerry or it’s something else being built on the
BlackBerry platform,” Heins said. Then, in an August interview with the
Telegraph, Heins appeared to be sketching out just what a BB10 licensing model
might look like. “We don’t have the economy of scale to compete against the
guys who crank out 60 handsets a year,” he said. “To deliver BB10, we may need
to look at licensing it to someone who can do this at a way better cost
proposition than [we] can do it.” A few weeks later, Heins made an even more
definitive statement. “QNX is already licensed across the automotive sector,”
he said, referring to platform on which BB10 was developed. “We could do that
with BB10 if we chose to. The platform can be licensed.” Now, none of these
remarks are confirmation that RIM will license BB10. But they’re a pretty
clear indication that it would do so if the right financial and strategic
incentives were there — and if there were a willing licensee, of course. But
to find a willing licensee, BlackBerry 10 must first prove itself in the
market. And ensuring it does so successfully is RIM’s priority at the moment.
“Thorsten Heins has made it very clear that we are focused on the delivery of
BlackBerry 10, which we will launch with events around the world on January
30th,” RIM spokeswoman Amy Jones told AllThingsD. “As he said on our most
recent results conference call on December 20th, we continue to examine all
available options to ‘create new opportunities, focusing on areas where we
will be more effective partnering rather than going it alone, and ultimately
maximizing value for all stakeholders.’ We do not have anything new to report
on our Strategic Review at this time.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130122/rim-
was-always-open-to-licensing-blackberry-10-and-it-still-is/feed/ 0 Netflix
Signs Streaming Deal With Time Warner http://allthingsd.com/20130107/netflix-
licenses-warner-bros-televisions-dramas/
http://allthingsd.com/20130107/netflix-licenses-warner-bros-televisions-
dramas/#comments Mon, 07 Jan 2013 18:10:38 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=282988 In a sign that Netflix Inc.’s appetite for new
content remains as healthy as ever, the video-streaming service struck a
licensing deal with Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros., covering a series of
fresh TV shows. Netflix will be able to stream complete previous seasons of
several Warner Bros.-produced shows, including several that debuted this
season, starting a couple of months after each season ends. These include
“Revolution,” a hit show on NBC, and less successful shows such as “666 Park
Avenue,” which ABC recently canceled. The deal also includes “The Following,”
whose premiere episode won’t air until later in January on Fox. Read the rest
of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130107/netflix-licenses-warner-bros-televisions-
dramas/feed/ 0 Apple Loses Patent Case to Licensing Firm
http://allthingsd.com/20121213/apple-loses-patent-case-to-licensing-firm/
http://allthingsd.com/20121213/apple-loses-patent-case-to-licensing-
firm/#comments Fri, 14 Dec 2012 01:45:37 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=278033
A federal jury in Delaware found Thursday that Apple Inc. infringed three
patents belonging to a company partly owned by Nokia Corp. and Sony Corp. of
America, in a case that shows how quickly the dynamics of patent licensing and
litigation are changing. The jury found that Apple’s iPhone infringed three
patents related to mobile-device technologies owned by MobileMedia Ideas LLC.
Two of those patents came to MMI from Nokia and the third from Sony. Read the
rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121213/apple-loses-patent-case-to-licensing-firm/feed/
0 Will RIM Pay Nokia to Avoid BlackBerry Ban?
http://allthingsd.com/20121128/will-rim-pay-nokia-to-avoid-blackberry-ban/
http://allthingsd.com/20121128/will-rim-pay-nokia-to-avoid-blackberry-
ban/#comments Wed, 28 Nov 2012 17:23:03 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=273422
Research In Motion’s contract dispute with Nokia has gone south, and in the
worst way possible. A Swedish arbitrator overseeing the pair’s spat over a
license for Nokia’s standards-essential patents has ruled that RIM is not
entitled to sell devices using the Finnish company’s Wi-Fi technologies until
it pays royalties on them. The dust-up between the two companies involves a
2003 licensing agreement that allowed RIM to use some of Nokia’s standards-
essential patents. The BlackBerry maker insists that Nokia’s Wi-Fi patents
were included in that deal, reasoning that they should be part of any
agreement related to standards-essential patents. But in Nokia’s mind they
were not, and the two companies soon began sparring over the issue. Last year,
they went into arbitration. And now the tribunal that heard their arguments
has determined that Nokia’s Wi-Fi patents were not covered by that 2003
agreement. This is a huge problem, because RIM is already selling a bunch of
hardware that uses them, and has been for years. And now Nokia has filed cases
in the U.S., Britain and Canada to enforce the arbitrator’s ruling. An
unfortunate turn of events for RIM, and one that couldn’t come at a worse
time. The company is scrambling to launch a new platform and portfolio of
handsets that it hopes will help it regain traction in the market it helped
pioneer. To have those devices — and its current ones, as well — suddenly
pulled from major markets would be a crippling blow. Which is not to say that
RIM is without options here. It could attempt some sort of workaround. It
could fight things out in court. Or it could simply roll over and pay the
licensing fee Nokia is asking. Of the three, the last seems the most likely
option, given the circumstances. As Jefferies analyst Peter Misek told
AllThingsD, “We think RIM has to settle, likely a royalty rate of $2 to $5 per
handset …” RIM and Nokia declined comment. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121128/will-rim-pay-nokia-to-avoid-blackberry-
ban/feed/ 0