Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Clinical
Relevance of Minimal Residual Disease in NEJM 03/28/2013 On March 27, the New
England Journal of Medicine published an article (click to download PDF) that
highlights the clinical relevance of MRD monitoring by Next Generation
Sequencing and its potential superiority to flow cytometry – concluding a wave
of impactful articles this month supporting the launch of Adaptive’s clonoSEQ
MRD technology. The article, published by our collaborators at the University
of Pennsylvania (Drs. Carl June, Michael Kalos, and Stephen Grupp et al),
describes the application of the Chimeric Antigen Receptor-modified T cells
with specificity for CD19 (CART-19) to two pediatric patients with relapsed
and refractory pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Adaptive
clonoSEQ assay was used to track MRD in both patients. In one patient,
complete remission (CR) was observed and confirmed with both clonoSEQ and flow
cytometry after treatment and ongoing at 11 months. However, the second
patient relapsed approximately 2 months after treatment, with blast cells that
no longer expressed CD19. clonoSEQ identified the relapse 1 month prior to
flow cytometry: Perhaps most importantly, the clonoSEQ assay identified the
cancer coming back (potentially predicting the relapse) when flow did not:
“Deep sequencing of IGH revealed the presence of the malignant clone in
peripheral blood and marrow as early as day 23 (Table 1), despite a clinical
assessment of no residual disease by means of flow cytometry at this time
point”. clonoSEQ monitoring was consistent even when the markers of disease
changed: As opposed to flow cytometry, NGS technology tracks the cancer clone
itself instead of pre-identified markers of disease (CD19), thus enabling a
timely and reliable surveillance of the disease even if mutations occur (CD19
no longer being expressed). clonoSEQ sequencing elucidated the origin of the
relapse: Further, the genetic marker that Adaptive sequences was able to
elucidate the origin of the relapse, which was an “escaped clone” from the
original cancer: “In addition, deep sequencing of DNA isolated from bone
marrow cells obtained at the time of clinical re-lapse revealed that the
CD45+dimCD34+CD19− cells are clonally related to the initial dominant
CD45dim+CD34+CD19dim+ cells, since they share the same IGH sequence.” Previous
Press Release Adaptive Announces Young Investigator Award Recipients for
February 03/04/2013 Next Press Release Adaptive featured in Nature
Biotechnology 04/01/2013 Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888)
522-8988 Immune Profiling PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products &
ServicesLIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ®
Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular
Therapy Antigen Map Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur
Story Culture Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All
Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy
HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses