Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Adaptive
Biotechnologies to Enter Into Worldwide Collaboration and License Agreement
with Genentech to Develop Personalized Cellular Therapies for the Treatment of
Cancer 01/04/2019 SEATTLE, Wa., January 4, 2019 – Adaptive Biotechnologies, an
immune-driven medicine company, today announced that it will enter into a
worldwide collaboration and license agreement with Genentech, a member of the
Roche Group, to develop, manufacture and commercialize novel neoantigen
directed T-cell therapies for the treatment of a broad range of cancers. The
collaboration will combine Genentech’s global cancer immunotherapy research
and development leadership with Adaptive’s proprietary T-cell receptor (TCR)
discovery and immune profiling platform (TruTCR™) to accelerate a
transformational new treatment paradigm of tailoring cellular therapy for each
patient’s individual cancer. Please view the full multimedia press release
here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190104005112/en/Adaptive-
Biotechnologies-Enter-Worldwide-Collaboration-License-Agreement “We are
thrilled that Genentech has selected Adaptive as a partner to develop
neoantigen directed T-cell therapies, a personalized approach to cellular
therapy,” said Chad Robins, chief executive officer and co-founder of Adaptive
Biotechnologies. “Genentech brings an industry-leading team of scientists and
drug development experts who could potentially enable our patented TCR
discovery and immune profiling platform to help as many patients as possible.”
Adaptive offers a pioneering technology platform to rapidly identify T-cell
receptors (TCRs) that can most effectively recognize and directly target
specific neoantigens, which are proteins generated by tumor-specific mutations
not present in normal tissues. Through this partnership, Adaptive will utilize
the investigational TCR discovery platform to identify the optimal TCRs to
most effectively target each patient’s neoantigens for treatment. Genentech
will engineer and manufacture a personalized cellular medicine to deliver to
each patient. The goal is to harness the vast majority of therapeutically
relevant, patient-specific neoantigens and advance the next generation of
cellular therapies in oncology. “We believe targeting neoantigens could be the
most effective approach for harnessing a person’s immune system to fight
cancer,” said James Sabry, M.D., Ph.D., global head of Pharma Partnering,
Roche. “This partnership, which combines Adaptive’s pioneering platform for
identifying T-cell receptors with Genentech’s cancer immunology expertise, has
the potential to change the way cancer is treated and bring us one step closer
to truly personalized healthcare.” “Cellular therapy approaches in cancer have
been limited by the inability to effectively screen and translate the immune
response to patient-specific neoantigens. Accurate recognition of such
neoantigens is a major driver in the activity of novel immunotherapies,” added
Harlan Robins, Ph.D., head of innovation and co-founder of Adaptive
Biotechnologies. “Given Adaptive’s unique ability to read and access the
immune system at unprecedented scale and precision, Adaptive and Genentech can
potentially jointly develop a patient-specific approach to treating cancer.”
Under the terms of the agreement, Adaptive will receive $300 million in an
initial upfront payment and may be eligible to receive more than $2 billion
over time, including payments upon achievement of specified development,
regulatory and commercial milestones, and royalties on sales. Genentech will
have responsibility for clinical, regulatory, and commercialization efforts,
and Adaptive will be responsible for patient-specific screening on a global
basis. Adaptive will continue to use its TCR discovery and immune profiling
platform to collaborate in the development of cellular therapies in other
disease areas, including autoimmune conditions and infectious diseases. The
completion of the agreement is subject to customary closing conditions,
including clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act,
and is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2019. Chad Robins, Adaptive
CEO, will present at the 37th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San
Francisco on Tuesday, January 8 at 11:30 am PT/2:30 pm ET. Robins will also
participate in a panel presentation, Reinventing the Disease Continuum Through
Precision Health, on January 7, 2019 at 5:00 pm PT/8:00 pm ET to discuss the
impact of immune profiling on the future of immune-driven medicine. About the
TruTCR Screening Platform in this Collaboration Adaptive’s TruTCR screening
platform enables the discovery of TCRs against any type of clinically relevant
antigen at high throughput. The platform can be used to identify antigens that
are shared among patients as well as those that are specific to individual
patients. In this collaboration, TruTCR will be used to identify and
characterize clinical-grade superior TCRs for attractive antigen binding and
tumor cell killing activity plus safety properties by querying hundreds of
antigens simultaneously with high sensitivity. To initiate clinical
development, the collaboration will first leverage Adaptive’s growing library
of well-characterized antigen-specific TCRs that have been screened against
thousands of known cancer antigens in patients. The ultimate goal, however, is
to screen and select a patient’s own potent TCRs targeting their own most
relevant neoantigens as a personalized therapy. This individual patient
screening process will be implemented as part of the manufacturing process for
each treated patient to custom tailor a cell therapy medicine for that
specific patient’s cancer. About Adaptive Biotechnologies Adaptive
Biotechnologies is a pioneer and leader in immune-driven medicine that aims to
improve people’s lives by learning from the wisdom of their adaptive immune
systems. Adaptive’s proprietary immune profiling platform reveals and
translates insights from our adaptive immune systems with unprecedented scale
and precision. Working with drug developers, clinicians and academic
researchers, we are applying these insights to develop products that will
transform the way we diagnose and treat diseases such as cancer, autoimmune
conditions, and infectious diseases. For more information, please visit
adaptivebiotech.com. CONTACT: Adaptive Biotechnologies Beth Keshishian (media)
917-912-7195 media@adaptivebiotech.com Previous Press Release Adaptive
Biotechnologies to Present at the 37th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare
Conference 01/03/2019 Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888)
522-8988 Immune Profiling PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products &
ServicesLIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ®
Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular
Therapy Antigen Map Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur
Story Culture Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All
Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy
HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses