News Hey, Lucovsky…Don't Let This Chair Hit You on the Way Out… Published on
July 15, 2009 by John Paczkowski “Prior to joining Google, I set up a meeting
on or about November 11, 2004 with Microsoft’s CEO Steve Ballmer to discuss my
planned departure….At some point in the conversation Mr. Ballmer said: ‘Just
tell me it’s not Google.’ I told him it was Google. At that point, Mr. Ballmer
picked up a chair and threw it across the room hitting a table in his office.”
– Former Microsoft Distinguished Engineer Mark Lucovsky “Iâve never thrown a
chair in my life….By and large I made a commitment nine years ago that I was
not going to curse. I know Iâve had one or two transgressions in nine years,
but I made that commitment to myself. Is that one of them? I donât recall.”
â Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer The rumors are true. Mark Lucovsky, the
engineer whose departure from Microsoft (MSFT) allegedly sent CEO Steve
Ballmer into a paroxysm of profanity and chair-tossing, has left Google (GOOG)
for a new position at VMware (VMW), the company has confirmed. Lucovsky, once
a Microsoft Distinguished Engineer and a key architect of Windows and the
company’s ill-starred Dot-Net strategy, was hired away by Google in 2004. Now,
five years later, he has unceremoniously left the search sovereign for a
senior engineer position at VMware. There, he’ll be reunited with Paul Maritz,
president and CEO of VMware, who once served as Vice President of the Platform
Strategy and Developer Group at Microsoft. Return to: Hey, Lucovsky…Don't Let
This Chair Hit You on the Way Out… URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20090715/confirmed-google-engineering-director-leaves-
for-vmware/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones
& Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.