AllThingsD » Industry Moves http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11
+0000 en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Another Longtime Windows Exec Heads for the Exit
as 2013 Draws to a Close http://allthingsd.com/20131231/another-longtime-
windows-exec-heads-for-the-exit-as-2013-draws-to-a-close/
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/another-longtime-windows-exec-heads-for-the-
exit-as-2013-draws-to-a-close/#comments Tue, 31 Dec 2013 21:03:48 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=382257 Grant George, a longtime head of software
testing at Microsoft, is leaving the company, AllThingsD has learned. Like Jon
DeVaan, who announced Monday he was retiring from Microsoft, George was left
without a clear role following a September reorganization of the Windows unit.
That reorg followed the departure of Windows head Steven Sinofsky. George
joined Microsoft in 1994 as a tester in the then-newly formed Office unit
following 14 years in testing at Tandem Computer. Sinofsky, who worked with
George on both Office and Windows, praised the contributions George made at
Microsoft. “Grant always represented the pinnacle of customer focus,” Sinofsky
said. “His contributions to both Windows and Office were without parallel in
the engineering discipline of testing, automation and quality.” A Microsoft
representative confirmed George’s departure, which he announced earlier
Tuesday in a memo to colleagues, saying, “We thank him for his contributions
to the company and wish him all the best.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/another-longtime-windows-exec-heads-for-the-
exit-as-2013-draws-to-a-close/feed/ 0 Veteran Microsoft Engineer Jon DeVaan
Leaving After Almost 30 Years http://allthingsd.com/20131230/veteran-
microsoft-engineer-jon-devaan-leaving-after-almost-30-years/
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/veteran-microsoft-engineer-jon-devaan-leaving-
after-almost-30-years/#comments Mon, 30 Dec 2013 21:32:58 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=382128 Jon DeVaan, a Microsoft engineer and executive
who has spent the better part of three decades at the company, is set to leave
the software giant on Tuesday. DeVaan is one of several longtime technical
folks at Microsoft whose future has been unclear since a September
reorganization of the Windows unit. That shuffling left DeVaan, testing lead
Grant George and services head Antoine Leblond without clear roles at the
company. “Jon DeVaan has chosen to leave Microsoft to spend more time with his
family,” Microsoft said in a statement on Monday. “Since he joined Microsoft
in 1984, Jon contributed to important products and services across the
company. We thank him and wish him and his family all the best.” Of course,
there have been some other big exits this year, including Windows unit head
Steven Sinofsky and the impending retirement of CEO Steve Ballmer once his
replacement has been hired. DeVaan’s departure was reported earlier Monday by
Seattle-area tech site GeekWire after DeVaan posted a goodbye letter on
Facebook. In that note, he reflected on his long tenure and some of the
products he worked on including some of Microsoft’s early Mac products and the
first Windows version of Excel. DeVaan also worked on the company’s TV efforts
before being tapped to overhaul companywide engineering processes before his
most recent work on Windows 7 and Windows 8. We’re checking into whether any
other execs from the Windows unit or elsewhere at Microsoft have decided that
Jan. 1 would be a good time to start spending more time with their families.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131230/veteran-microsoft-engineer-jon-devaan-
leaving-after-almost-30-years/feed/ 0 Acer Sees Senior Executive Departures
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-senior-executive-departures/
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-senior-executive-departures/#comments
Mon, 30 Dec 2013 16:33:18 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=382065 Acer Inc. said
Monday that three senior executives had recently left the company and some of
them won’t be replaced as the embattled personal-computer maker tries to keep
costs low. The management changes are the latest of Acer’s efforts to pull
itself out of a major crisis as sales of tablets and smartphones eclipse those
of personal computers. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-senior-executive-departures/feed/ 0
Former Microsoft CFO Peter Klein Takes His Talents to William Morris
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/former-microsoft-cfo-peter-klein-takes-his-
talents-to-william-morris/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/former-microsoft-
cfo-peter-klein-takes-his-talents-to-william-morris/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013
20:36:21 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380662 Talent agency William Morris
Endeavor Entertainment said on Monday that it had hired former Microsoft CFO
Peter Klein to be its new financial chief. William Morris is in the process of
acquiring IMG Worldwide, and Klein will serve as CFO of both entities when the
deal closes, reporting to co-CEOs Patrick Whitesell and Ari Emanuel. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/former-microsoft-cfo-peter-klein-takes-his-
talents-to-william-morris/feed/ 0 Former Yahoo and Zynga Exec Named President
and COO of Audax Health http://allthingsd.com/20131219/former-yahoo-and-zynga-
exec-named-president-and-coo-of-audax-health/
http://allthingsd.com/20131219/former-yahoo-and-zynga-exec-named-president-
and-coo-of-audax-health/#comments Thu, 19 Dec 2013 22:48:57 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380147 David Ko, who joined the board of Audax Health
in September, has been named president and COO of the Washington, D.C.-based
digital health development company. He’ll be based in the company’s San
Francisco office. Before Audax, Ko was COO at gaming company Zynga and he also
spent a decade at Yahoo in various senior roles. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131219/former-yahoo-and-zynga-exec-named-president-
and-coo-of-audax-health/feed/ 0 Meet Kathy Brown, the Internet Society's New
CEO http://allthingsd.com/20131219/meet-kathy-brown-the-internet-societys-new-
ceo/ http://allthingsd.com/20131219/meet-kathy-brown-the-internet-societys-
new-ceo/#comments Thu, 19 Dec 2013 19:26:05 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380037 If you’re the kind of person who keeps track
of Internet policy and governance debates, you should know that the Internet
Society has a new CEO as of today. Her name is Kathy Brown, and she’s a former
senior VP for policy and corporate responsibility at Verizon, where, among
other things, she was a member of the U.S. delegation to the meetings of the
International Telecommunications Union in Dubai last year when there was a
movement by some countries to expand its oversight authority over the
Internet. It was controversial, and in the end a lot of countries, including
the U.S., didn’t sign on to the proposal, but the debate isn’t over yet. A lot
of people don’t give much thought to the Internet Society or to the idea that
there’s actually a governance structure to the Internet itself that sets the
rules under which it functions. The organization’s basic mission is to promote
the Internet’s growth around the world. But it’s also the home of the Internet
Engineering Task Force, which sets technical standards that define the
protocols that make it all work Back in the latter years of the Clinton
administration, Brown ran the Office of Policy and Development at the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration. She was later chief of
staff to FCC Chairman William Kennard. Brown starts on the job on Jan. 1, but
I had a short chat with her earlier this week. Here’s a few highlights of what
we talked about: AllThingsD: Why come to the Internet Society? Kathy Brown:
I’ve spent the last 15 years or more in government during a time when the
Internet evolved from just an idea to the time when it caused a disruption to
most of the world’s industries. So I was involved in all of that from a policy
perspective. And then at Verizon I worked on the policy issues that were
emerging not just domestically but internationally. It’s a huge passion of
mine. We’ve seen the changes that the Internet has brought to many countries
in the world, and the benefit it can bring to the others. What will your
priorities be coming into the job? The Internet has matured considerably. It’s
a very different experience for users now than it was 15 years ago. There’s an
opportunity to understand what that change is and to engage with the hot-
button issues. There’s the security issue, the privacy issue, the trust issue,
and really the threat of balkanization of the Internet should we not have a
global consensus around it. So I think about what there is to do in three big
buckets. The first is Internet governance, and the reliable technology-based
information that the organization can offer. I want that information to be
part of the discussion as we talk about government intrusion into the Internet
as well as the multi-stakeholder approach to Internet innovation. That issue
to me is very topical and it’s enormously important that we get it right. …
Second is that the Internet Society has a global infrastructure of grass roots
activists that is very close to how the Internet is used in various
communities. I think we need to keep those voices front and center so we don’t
lose sight of what’s at stake in all the policy discussions. What’s at stake
is the way that individuals are able to use the Internet, and businesses are
able to use it to build value, and how the Internet can be used to help things
like education and health care. Finally, the Internet Society houses the
Internet Engineering Task Force. They’re really the people who invented the
Internet and the generation of people who have followed who keep on inventing
the Internet. So my goal is to make sure each of those areas gets
strengthened. And what’s likely to be the first of those issues you’ll be
dealing with in 2014? The first will probably be around Internet governance.
Remember the International Telecommunications Union, the United Nations agency
that has historically regulated the Internet connections of carriers? It had
its treaty meeting, and those meetings were contentious. Many of those issues
remain. It turned out to be a mixed bag on the treaty front because there were
many countries that signed on to it and many including the U.S. that did not.
Those issues have not gone away. The next big ITU meeting is in October, so
those issues are still on the table. The debate is coming up in various
forums, and so that’s where I will have my eye on the policy front. Also, the
ITU’s charter is coming up for renewal, and that’s where the scope of the
agency’s authority will be discussed. And I think you’ll hear a lot about that
leading up to those meetings. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131219/meet-kathy-
brown-the-internet-societys-new-ceo/feed/ 0 T-Mobile Taps Former Avon, Barnes
& Noble Exec as New CIO http://allthingsd.com/20131219/t-mobile-taps-former-
avon-barnes-noble-exec-as-new-cio/ http://allthingsd.com/20131219/t-mobile-
taps-former-avon-barnes-noble-exec-as-new-cio/#comments Thu, 19 Dec 2013
18:33:28 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380042 T-Mobile US has hired Gary King
to serve as its chief information officer, effective at the end of the year.
King, who has worked at Avon and Barnes & Noble, has spent the past nine years
at retailer Chico’s FAS, where he was also CIO. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131219/t-mobile-taps-former-avon-barnes-noble-exec-as-
new-cio/feed/ 0 Mirriad, the Company That Wants to Automate Product Placement,
Gets Some High-Profile Help http://allthingsd.com/20131219/mirriad-the-
company-that-wants-to-automate-product-placement-gets-some-high-profile-help/
http://allthingsd.com/20131219/mirriad-the-company-that-wants-to-automate-
product-placement-gets-some-high-profile-help/#comments Thu, 19 Dec 2013
10:00:13 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=379851 You don’t want to watch ads.
But if the ad is inserted directly into the thing you want to watch, you’ll
put up with it. You might even like it. That’s the premise behind product
placement, which is a very old idea. Now Mirriad is trying to update the
concept, by digitizing it, and creating a marketplace that lets advertisers
and content owners make deals on the fly. That means that in theory, if Coke
wanted to insert some cans into reruns of “NCIS,” it could cut a deal with
CBS, using a Web dashboard, and you’d never know that Mark Harmon was guzzling
something else the first time around. Mirriad isn’t the first company to layer
digital images onto video — if you’ve watched sports on TV over the last
decade, you’ve seen it all the time, from the first-down markers on NFL games
to the rotating billboards behind home plate in baseball games. But the
London-based company wants to make this a really big, automated ad business.
So far they’ve raised more than $7 million over the last few years. Now
they’re trying to increase their visibility in the media world. This might
help: They’ve brought on Roger Faxon, a man who used to run of the world’s
biggest music labels, as chairman and an investor. Faxon ran EMI Music Group
for five years before Universal Music swallowed it up last year. Lots of
people have expected Faxon to take on another big music job, but for now he is
keeping his options open. At Mirriad, he’ll work with founder and CEO Mark
Popkiewicz, but his formal title is “non-executive chairman,” so I get the
sense that one of his chief jobs will be as ambassador/door-opener. Here’s a
promo clip that gives you a pretty good idea of what Mirriad is pitching:
Mirriad Reel 90Sec from mirriad on Vimeo. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131219/mirriad-the-company-that-wants-to-automate-
product-placement-gets-some-high-profile-help/feed/ 0 Microsoft Veteran
DelBene Tapped to Run Health Care Site
http://allthingsd.com/20131217/microsoft-veteran-delbene-tapped-to-run-health-
care-site/ http://allthingsd.com/20131217/microsoft-veteran-delbene-tapped-to-
run-health-care-site/#comments Tue, 17 Dec 2013 18:18:02 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=379279 The White House just announced that it has
named Kurt DelBene, former head of Microsoft’s Business Division, to oversee
the government’s troubled Healthcare.gov website. Microsoft announced
DelBene’s plan to retire from that company in a reorganization memo circulated
in July. He was named president of Microsoft’s Business Division in 2010. He’s
replacing Jeffrey Zients, the manager who is largely credited with fixing the
site after its disastrous October rollout, though the effort remains
incomplete. President Obama recently tapped Zients as his new chief economic
adviser. The appointment was announced by Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius in an agency blog post: “Kurt, who most recently served as
president of the Microsoft Office Division, will lead and manage
HealthCare.gov starting this Wednesday. Kurt has proven expertise in heading
large, complex technology teams and in product development. He will be a
tremendous asset in our work. “Kurt will work closely with me, the White
House, and the teams and senior leadership in place at HHS and CMS to see this
project through its next important phase as the CMS team continues to build on
their initial progress. He has agreed to serve in this role for at least the
first half of next year. Because of the site’s progress, his responsibilities,
while similar to Jeff’s, will reflect an evolution of focus as we move on to
the next phase. “First, Kurt will provide management expertise, operations
oversight, and critical advice on additional enrollment channels, field
operations, marketing and communications. The President and I believe strongly
in having one person, with strong experience and expertise in management and
execution, who is thinking 24/7 about HealthCare.gov. Kurt’s leadership and
management of HealthCare.gov will be in consultation with CMS Administrator
Marilyn Tavenner and in partnership with the project’s general contractor,
QSSI. “Second, Kurt will execute the plan in place, so that we can ensure the
site’s performance is strong through the close of open enrollment on March 31,
2014. This will include a focus on increasing system stability, redundancy and
capacity, and building on improvements to the user interface, while continuing
to prioritize security and privacy issues in line with industry best
practices. DelBene spent 21 years at Microsoft, and before that worked at
McKinsey and Co. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131217/microsoft-veteran-delbene-
tapped-to-run-health-care-site/feed/ 0 Sony Shakes Up U.S. Leadership, Taps
Michael Fasulo to Continue Turnaround Effort
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/sony-shakes-up-u-s-leadership-taps-michael-
fasulo-in-continued-turnaround-effort/ http://allthingsd.com/20131216/sony-
shakes-up-u-s-leadership-taps-michael-fasulo-in-continued-turnaround-
effort/#comments Mon, 16 Dec 2013 21:06:02 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=379055 Michael FasuloSony said Monday that it is
changing its U.S. leadership, shifting current head Phil Molyneux to non-
executive chairman, while naming Michael Fasulo as its new president. Fasulo,
currently executive VP and head of sales for the U.S., will assume the new
post Jan. 1, and Sony executive Toshifumi Okuda will come over from Japan and
serve as deputy president. “Phil Molyneux, who has ably served Sony for more
than a quarter century, came to SEL in 2010 with a specific mission: to
transform the business in the face of daunting, industry-wide challenges,
reducing costs and streamlining operations,” Sony CEO Kazuo Hirai said in a
statement. “He accomplished those goals and laid a firm foundation for future
growth. All of us at Sony are grateful for his dedicated service and
passionate commitment to the employees he led for the past three-plus years.”
Phil Molyneux Molyneux spoke to reporters last week about Sony’s continued
effort to re-establish itself as a premium brand in the U.S., saying it hopes
to use the transition to Ultra HD, or 4K, as a catalyst. Fasulo, who joined
Sony in 1984 as a financial analyst, has worked in a variety of roles in his
nearly 30 years at the company. “I am both humbled and honored to take on this
critical role, and I have strong resolve to lead Sony in the U.S. to success,”
said Fasulo. “I am equally inspired by Hirai-san’s confidence in me, and am
very excited to be leading the folks I’ve worked with at Sony Electronics for
many years. I look forward to Okuda-san’s arrival and working as one team to
rejuvenate this brand I love.” “There is no doubt that U.S. is one of the most
important markets for Sony,” said Okuda. “I am very much excited to work and
align with Mike and all SEL employees to make Sony regain the leadership
position in this important market.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131216/sony-
shakes-up-u-s-leadership-taps-michael-fasulo-in-continued-turnaround-
effort/feed/ 0 Noogler Poach -- Google Nabs Top Maps and AR Engineer From
Microsoft (Video) http://allthingsd.com/20131216/noogler-poach-google-nabs-
top-maps-and-ar-engineer-from-microsoft/
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/noogler-poach-google-nabs-top-maps-and-ar-
engineer-from-microsoft/#comments Mon, 16 Dec 2013 20:29:56 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=379016 TED/www.leslieimage.com Microsoft has lost one
of its most well-regarded and creative engineers to Google. According to the
software giant and the search leader, Blaise Agüera y Arcas will now be a
Noogler — that is, a new Google staffer. It is a decidedly big loss for
Microsoft, which sources said tried mightily to keep him. Agüera y Arcas has
worked on a number of key projects at Microsoft, including augmented reality,
wearable computing, interaction design, natural user interfaces and, perhaps
most significantly, on Bing Maps. Google declined to comment, but the New York
Times reported earlier today that he would be working on machine learning.
Microsoft confirmed the move. One source close to Microsoft said Agüera y
Arcas had wanted to work on devices, but had not been moved there. Another
noted that he had become frustrated by the confusion around the recent
restructuring and search for a new CEO. Agüera y Arcas was the co-creator of
Photosynth, an innovative software that gathers photos into 3-D environments.
He came to Microsoft in 2006 after its Live Labs unit acquired his Seadragon
Software startup. In a talk he did at the TED conference in 2007, a speech
that got him a lot of notice in which he showed off Photosynth, he joked: “I
never thought I would work at Microsoft.” No longer, it seems, and now Agüera
y Arcas has the vast and well-funded playground at Google to work in. He
certainly can keep up. According to his bio, he “authored patents on both
video compression and 3D visualization techniques, and in 2001, he made an
influential computational discovery that cast doubt on Gutenberg’s role as the
father of movable type.” Another fun fact: “According to the author, Blaise is
the inspiration for the character Elgin in the 2012 best-selling novel
‘Where’d You Go, Bernadette?'” Here are his two TED appearances in 2007 (about
Photosynth) and Bing Maps (2010), in which it will be abundantly clear that
this is a big steal by Google from Microsoft: (Photo courtesy of TED.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/noogler-poach-google-nabs-top-maps-and-ar-
engineer-from-microsoft/feed/ 0 Two More Executives Leaving BlackBerry
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/two-more-executives-leaving-blackberry/
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/two-more-executives-leaving-
blackberry/#comments Mon, 16 Dec 2013 18:33:54 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=379001 The leadership upheaval at BlackBerry Ltd.
continues under interim Chief Executive John Chen, according to people
familiar with the matter. The smartphone maker’s executive vice president in
charge of global sales, Rick Costanzo, will be leaving the company by early
next year, according to these people. Chris Wormald, who was in charge of
BlackBerry’s mergers and acquisitions strategy, will be gone by the end of
this month, according to one of these people. Read the rest of this post on
the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131216/two-more-executives-
leaving-blackberry/feed/ 0 Violin Memory Fires CEO Basile as IPO and Quarterly
Results Disappoint http://allthingsd.com/20131216/violin-memory-fires-ceo-
basile-as-ipo-and-quarterly-results-disappoint/
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/violin-memory-fires-ceo-basile-as-ipo-and-
quarterly-results-disappoint/#comments Mon, 16 Dec 2013 17:17:20 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=378956 Violin Memory, the flash-storage player, just
fired CEO Don Basile (pictured) in the wake of the lousy performance of its
initial public offering and quarterly results that were worse than anyone
expected. The company named Howard A. Bain III, the chairman of its board, as
interim CEO. The news comes as Violin has turned out to be something of a
disaster since its Sept. 27 IPO. Having priced at $9 a share, it opened for
trading that day at $7.50, and raised $162 million in the process. Its shares
have fallen by nearly 70 percent since then. And last month, it reported a
quarterly loss that was nearly twice as bad as anyone expected: 85 cents a
share on $28.3 million in sales. That’s versus a 44-cent loss on $32 million
in revenue that analysts had expected. Expectations had certainly been high
for Violin, especially given all the venture capital money that had been
poured into it. It raised at least $96 million in a pre-IPO round in February,
and a year before that it raised $50 million. All told, it had raised more
than $180 million over three years from venture capitalist firms including
Highland Capital Partners, GE Capital, SAP Ventures, Juniper Networks and
Toshiba. Against the backdrop of last week’s IPO by rival Nimble Storage, the
shares of which rose more than 60 percent in its debut, the optics of Violin’s
weak performance are only getting worse, and rumors that Basile’s head was on
the block have been rumbling for a few days. According to its S-1 filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Basile had been granted 2.5 million
fully-vested Violin shares worth $6.8 million as of today’s price before the
news was announced, for getting the company to an IPO by the end of September,
which he did. Overall, he owns just under six million shares of the company,
accounting for about 4.6 percent of the shares outstanding. Numerous
investigations by law firms that specialize in shareholder lawsuits are under
way. Here’s the announcement: Violin Memory Announces Appointment of Howard A.
Bain III as Interim CEO SANTA CLARA, Calif. — (BUSINESS WIRE) — Violin Memory,
Inc., (VMEM), a leader in persistent memory-based storage solutions, today
announced that Howard A. Bain III, Chairman of the Violin Memory Board of
Directors, has been appointed interim Chief Executive Officer, effective
immediately. Mr. Bain’s appointment follows the decision of the Board of
Directors to terminate Donald Basile as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bain will
remain Chairman of the Board. The Violin Memory Board of Directors has
initiated a search process and retained an executive search firm to identify a
permanent CEO. Mr. Bain, who has served as Violin Memory’s Chairman since
August 2013 and as a member of the Board since October 2012, brings to the
Company over 40 years of operational, financial and leadership expertise,
having served as Chief Financial Officer at several public companies,
including Portal Software, Inc., Vicinity Corporation, Informix Corporation
and Symantec Corporation. He has significant industry experience having served
in senior management positions at various technology companies in the areas of
semiconductor devices and manufacturing equipment, laser-based large screen
projection systems, and computer disk drives. In addition, Mr. Bain has served
as a consultant on corporate governance issues since 2004, and is a Governance
Fellow with the National Association of Corporate Directors. David Walrod,
Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of
Directors, said, “The Board believes this leadership change is necessary to
enhance the management team’s operational focus and ability to execute the
Company’s plans for profitable growth. We are, however, fortunate to have
someone with Howard’s extensive operational, financial and leadership
experience ready to assume the role of interim CEO at this important juncture
for the Company. During his time as director of Violin Memory, Howard has
gained a deep understanding of the Company’s products, customers, strategy and
management team, as well as the significant growth opportunities in the
enterprise memory market. We are confident that he is the right person to lead
Violin Memory while we search for a permanent replacement to fill the CEO
role.” “Violin Memory is focused on maintaining the operational flexibility to
manage through the emerging dynamics of our industry, with financial resources
on hand to achieve our objectives. While our fundamental strategy to drive
growth remains unchanged, we will pursue additional tactical initiatives to
improve the overall cost efficiency of the business and improve sales leverage
through our partner and indirect channels. We have a robust product roadmap in
place that positions us well to take advantage of the transition to a memory-
based data center and build an even stronger future for all of our
stakeholders,” said Mr. Bain. “Having served as Chairman of the Board, I am
well aware of the many opportunities ahead and look forward to engaging with
the Company’s customers, team members and shareholders in the coming weeks.
Most importantly, I am confident in our team’s ability to execute and provide
our customers with the high level of support and service that they have come
to expect from us.” About Howard A. Bain III Howard has served on our board of
directors since October 2012. Since 2004, Mr. Bain has been an independent
consultant in all aspects of corporate finance. Mr. Bain has served as Chief
Financial Officer at several public companies including: Portal Software, Inc.
from 2001 to 2004, Vicinity Corporation in 2000, Informix Corporation from
1999 to 2000, and Symantec Corporation from 1991 to 1999. Prior to that, he
served as a Senior Audit Supervisor at Arthur Andersen LLP, where he was a
certified public accountant. He is also a Governance Fellow with the National
Association of Corporate Directors. Mr. Bain has served on the board of
directors of Nanometrics, Inc. since April 2008, Learning Tree International,
Inc. since 2001, as well as Nok Nok Labs, Inc. a private venture capital
financed company. Mr. Bain holds a B.S. in Business Administration from
California Polytechnic University. Mr. Bain’s significant Board, operational,
financial expertise, including his experience as Chief Financial Officer at
several public companies, as well as his experience in various technology
companies in the areas of semiconductor devices and manufacturing equipment,
laser-based large screen projection systems, and computer disk drives is
directly relevant to Violin’s business and his responsibilities to the Board.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131216/violin-memory-fires-ceo-basile-as-ipo-and-
quarterly-results-disappoint/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Taps Steve Mollenkopf, Rumored
as Microsoft Successor, as Its Next CEO
http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-
microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/ http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-
taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/#comments
Fri, 13 Dec 2013 14:04:03 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=378613 A day after he
was mentioned in a news report as a possible dark-horse successor to outgoing
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, Steve Mollenkopf, COO of wireless chipmaker
Qualcomm, has been named as the company’s next CEO. Mollenkopf will replace
Paul Jacobs, who will remain executive chairman of Qualcomm, and who is the
son of the company’s founder, Irwin Jacobs. The appointment will become
effective on March 4. Bloomberg News reported yesterday that Mollenkopf had
emerged as a new name in the race to succeed Ballmer. The software giant has
considered several outside candidates, including Ford CEO Alan Mulally and
VMware CEO Pat Gelsinger. Internal candidates include Tony Bates, Microsoft’s
current head of business development, and its enterprise chief, Satya Nadella.
Mollenkopf has been with Qualcomm since 1994, and has recently led its
wireless-chipset business unit, known as QCT. On his watch, the company
acquired the Wi-Fi-chip company Atheros in 2011 for $3.1 billion. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-
microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/feed/ 0 Former Google Exec Appointed
Deputy Director of the USPTO http://allthingsd.com/20131212/former-google-
exec-appointed-deputy-director-of-the-uspto/
http://allthingsd.com/20131212/former-google-exec-appointed-deputy-director-
of-the-uspto/#comments Thu, 12 Dec 2013 14:26:12 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=378419 The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has a new
deputy director: Former Google exec Michelle Lee. Lee, who previously served
as head of patents and patent strategy at Google, had been heading up the
Silicon Valley branch of the USPTO. Her promotion to deputy director of the
federal agency, which she will oversee until its vacant director’s slot is
filled, should bring to the office a unique Silicon Valley perspective on
intellectual property issues. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131212/former-
google-exec-appointed-deputy-director-of-the-uspto/feed/ 0 ShopRunner CEO
Scott Thompson Joins Board of Lead-Gen Startup Radius
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/shoprunner-ceo-scott-thompson-joins-board-of-
lead-gen-startup-radius/ http://allthingsd.com/20131211/shoprunner-ceo-scott-
thompson-joins-board-of-lead-gen-startup-radius/#comments Wed, 11 Dec 2013
12:00:17 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377980 Scott Thompson, the CEO of
ShopRunner and onetime CEO of Yahoo, has joined the board of directors of
Radius, a startup that helps salespeople build targeted lists of prospective
small-business customers. Radius started off as Fwix, an aggregator of so-
called “hyperlocal content,” and has raised more than $30 million from BlueRun
Ventures, Comcast Ventures and American Express. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/shoprunner-ceo-scott-thompson-joins-board-of-
lead-gen-startup-radius/feed/ 0 Strava CEO Steps Down, and Former CEO Returns,
but Not for the Usual Reasons http://allthingsd.com/20131210/strava-ceo-steps-
down-and-former-ceo-returns-but-not-for-the-usual-reasons/
http://allthingsd.com/20131210/strava-ceo-steps-down-and-former-ceo-returns-
but-not-for-the-usual-reasons/#comments Tue, 10 Dec 2013 17:00:02 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=377847 Strava, the endurance-sports app maker, is
going through a leadership change. CEO Michael Horvath will publicly announce
today that he is stepping down for family reasons, and former CEO and board
chairman Mark Gainey is returning to the top role. Horvath will become
president and chairman of the board. But this is not the usual smoothed-over
executive battle. Horvath plans to post that the reason he is leaving is
because his wife Anna has cancer, actually for a third time. Earlier this
fall, she was diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer in her liver that can be
managed for an unknown amount of time. To complicate matters, Horvath has been
splitting time for years between Hanover, N.H., where his family lives, and
San Francisco, where Strava is based. So he is stepping back in order to be at
home with Anna. Horvath said they agreed to talk about it publicly in the hope
that other people will benefit from their openness. The other unusual part of
this story is that Gainey is ready and waiting to take over from Horvath in
what appears to be the smoothest of ways. The two men are longtime best
friends — they rowed crew together at Harvard, and started their first company
together in 1995. (It was actually originally supposed to be a “virtual locker
room,” a la a ’90s version of Strava, but turned into the still-extant
customer-communication company Kana.) The two men co-founded Strava in 2009,
and Gainey stepped down as CEO in 2010, coincidentally due to a family issue
of his own, he said. Since then, Gainey said he has spent about half of his
time working on Strava as Horvath’s sounding board, and the rest on various
nonprofit and corporate boards. Strava — which doesn’t give out a lot of
numbers about its business, but said that its user base doubled in 2013, and
its revenue tripled — has a fanatical community, Gainey noted. “People don’t
talk about ‘downloading an app,’ they talk about ‘joining Strava,'” he said.
“We have a loyal, energetic and extremely active community. We’re just trying
to be good shepherds.” That’s true, but Strava is in the competitive and
growing activity-tracking space, so it will need to be more agile than
passive. Horvath and Gainey said that what’s next for the 85-person company is
expanding internationally — this year, 65 percent of new users came from
outside the U.S. — and bringing its support for runners up to the level it
maintains with cyclists. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131210/strava-ceo-steps-
down-and-former-ceo-returns-but-not-for-the-usual-reasons/feed/ 0 Longtime AOL
Exec Jon Brod Headed Out http://allthingsd.com/20131209/longtime-aol-exec-jon-
brod-headed-out/ http://allthingsd.com/20131209/longtime-aol-exec-jon-brod-
headed-out/#comments Tue, 10 Dec 2013 01:45:43 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=377726 AOL executive Jon Brod, who has had multiple
roles in the company and was most recently in charge of its venture arm, is
leaving AOL. The news isn’t a huge shock, as AOL Ventures has been in a bit of
limbo for a while, and Brod was moved there last spring after his second run
heading Patch, CEO Tim Armstrong’s big and troubled bet on local news. Sources
say Brod has told AOL that he is headed for a startup; AOL declined to
comment. Brod is one of the last AOL executives with longstanding ties to
Armstrong. He was one of Patch’s co-founders, and joined AOL after Armstrong,
an early Patch investor, bought the company in June 2009. After that, he held
a variety of roles: He first ran AOL Ventures, and at one point was in charge
of “integrating” Arianna Huffington and her operation after AOL bought her
company. Armstrong moved him back to Patch in 2011. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/longtime-aol-exec-jon-brod-headed-out/feed/ 0
New Relic Taps Salesforce President Koplow-McAdams as Revenue Chief
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/new-relic-taps-salesforce-president-koplow-
mcadams-as-revenue-chief/ http://allthingsd.com/20131209/new-relic-taps-
salesforce-president-koplow-mcadams-as-revenue-chief/#comments Mon, 09 Dec
2013 21:29:42 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377608 New Relic, the fast-
growing software monitoring company, will announce today that it has hired
Salesforce.com President Hilarie Koplow-McAdams as its new chief revenue
officer. The move confirms a Sept. 30 AllThingsD report saying that Koplow-
McAdams was close to leaving Salesforce amid a broader shake-up on that
company’s executive team, though at the time it was unclear where she was
headed. In an interview, New Relic CEO Lew Cirne said hiring Koplow-McAdams
was one of two things he wanted to complete this year. The other is finishing
Rubicon, the business intelligence engine he dreamed up during a vacation
coding bender at Lake Tahoe’s Rubicon Peak last year. “Earlier this year, I
thought that if I could convince Hilarie to join us and complete Rubicon Beta,
then everything else is just gravy, I would have done what I needed to do as
CEO of the company,” Cirne said. For Koplow-McAdams, it’s her fourth stop at a
major software company, and the first with the word “chief” in her title.
She’s an 18-year veteran of Oracle, joining the software giant in 1988 when it
was only a $100 million company. She left in 2006 as an EVP running Oracle’s
direct sales business. She then spent two years at Intuit, before moving to
Salesforce in 2008, first as EVP for worldwide sales and eventually rising to
president for global sales. Koplow-McAdams (pictured above speaking at a 2012
Salesforce.com event) said that conversations with Cirne started with a plan
to have her join New Relic’s board of advisers. “When I met Lew, it felt
different,” she said. “This is a guy designing a product that people love.
When I started talking to customers and analysts, I could not believe the warm
reception that I got. That got me thinking.” New Relic’s main business is its
cloud-based software that is used to monitor the performance of other software
— Web apps, smartphone apps and pretty much any other kind of software you can
think of — to help ensure that it’s running right. It does it in a big and
granular way by recording a few billion events a day that are reported in to a
huge database. Customers can then comb through that data with relative ease
and zero in on any problems with their software and then try to fix them. The
company got a healthy dose of attention earlier this month when government
contractors working to fix the troubled Healthcare.gov website were spotted
using the service to track and fix problems. The disclosure was made in the
form of a screenshot of New Relic’s service that appeared in a Dec. 1 progress
report from the Department of Health and Human Service on the efforts to
improve the site’s performance. “That was pretty big news for us,” Cirne said.
“I woke up on Sunday and people were tweeting about it. When you’re a kid
growing up thinking about playing in the big league, you always want to throw
a strikeout, and we threw a strikeout.” Koplow-McAdams’s role will be to work
not only on sales, Cirne said; she will also head up customer success efforts,
including support operations, as well as business development and strategic
alliances. The move caps a busy year at New Relic. The company’s customer base
has swelled to 70,000. It has raised a combined $175 million in five funding
rounds since 2008, the latest of which was an $80 million private equity round
early this year led by Insight Venture Partners. Other investors include
Dragoneer Investment Group, Passport Ventures, Allen & Company, Benchmark,
Trinity Ventures and Tenaya Capital. The company is also starting to warm up
the engines for an IPO. In July it added longtime Silicon Valley finance
veteran Peter Currie to its board of directors. Currie also sits on the board
of directors at Twitter, and was briefly CFO at Facebook. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/new-relic-taps-salesforce-president-koplow-
mcadams-as-revenue-chief/feed/ 0 Payments Startup Clinkle Lays Off Nearly a
Quarter of Its Staff http://allthingsd.com/20131209/payments-startup-clinkle-
lays-off-nearly-a-quarter-of-its-staff/
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/payments-startup-clinkle-lays-off-nearly-a-
quarter-of-its-staff/#comments Mon, 09 Dec 2013 18:04:10 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=377619 Clinkle, a secretive, much-hyped payments
startup, plans to lay off somewhere in the neighborhood of 20 percent to 25
percent of its employees, or about 16 people, AllThingsD has learned. The move
was led by former Netflix CFO Barry McCarthy — now Clinkle’s new COO — who
wants to bring in more experienced staff. Fortune’s Dan Primack was the first
to report the news. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131209/payments-startup-
clinkle-lays-off-nearly-a-quarter-of-its-staff/feed/ 0 Balaji Srinivasan Joins
Andreessen Horowitz as General Partner http://allthingsd.com/20131209/balaji-
srinivasan-joins-andreessen-horowitz-as-general-partner/
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/balaji-srinivasan-joins-andreessen-horowitz-as-
general-partner/#comments Mon, 09 Dec 2013 18:00:17 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=377612 Balaji Srinivasan, an emerging Silicon Valley
thought leader, has been hired by the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz
as a general partner. Srinivasan was previously co-founder and CTO of the
genetics-testing startup Counsyl, and he was a popular lecturer at Stanford on
the theory and practice of startups after receiving BS, MS and PhD degrees
from that university in electrical and chemical engineering. He opined in a
recent thought piece for Wired that online communities might in the future
physically migrate to be near each other. It’s a bit of a wilder idea than the
normal Silicon Valley fare, with Srinivasan suggesting that tech-savvy people
will create the next Silicon Valley in a new place, separate from the Muggles.
He wrote: “This is why location is becoming so much less important: technology
is enabling us to access everything we need from our mobile phone, to find our
true communities in the cloud, and to easily travel to assemble these
communities in person. Taken together, we are rapidly approaching a future
characterized by a totally new phenomenon, the reverse diaspora: one that
starts out internationally distributed, finds each other online, and ends up
physically concentrated.” But the piece, titled “Software Is Reorganizing the
World,” was in some ways a next chapter for the oft-cited 2011 essay by
Andreessen Horowitz co-founder and general partner Marc Andreessen, called
“Why Software Is Eating the World,” which talked about the potential for
online services to transform all varieties of industries. The provocative echo
was a clear appeal. In an email, Andreessen compared Srinivasan to Peter
Thiel, another investor with a huge IQ and something to say. Srinivasan is
“the founder/former CTO of a very successful ‘software eats X’ company — in
this case software eats genetic testing for embryos — Counsyl — so right at
the heart of our profile,” Andreessen explained. “Plus, entrepreneurs love
him, particularly the really creative ones.” Andreessen added, “He’s a super-
high-octane polymath, with very broad interests. He particularly zeroes in on
applications of software/Internet to real world problems — health care, money
(Bitcoin), transportation, etc. ‘Atoms meets bits’ he calls it.” Srinivasan is
also looking to invest in online education, drones and 3-D printing, the firm
said. Srinivasan has been mentioned as the co-founder of a new stealth startup
that raised $5 million earlier this year, one that would supposedly be related
to his work around bitcoin. An Andreessen Horowitz spokeswoman said that
company was started before Srinivasan met the firm, and that he will continue
there in an advisory role. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131209/balaji-
srinivasan-joins-andreessen-horowitz-as-general-partner/feed/ 0 Filling Out
Its Executive Team, Airbnb Hires Operations and HR Heads
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/filling-out-its-executive-team-airbnb-hires-
operations-and-hr-heads/ http://allthingsd.com/20131204/filling-out-its-
executive-team-airbnb-hires-operations-and-hr-heads/#comments Thu, 05 Dec 2013
01:03:35 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=376824 Airbnb has hired Varsha Rao as
head of global operations, and Mark Levy as head of employee experience. Both
started this week. In regular company terms, they are effectively the peer-to-
peer travel company’s COO and head of HR. Varsha Rao and Mark LevyRao
previously led operations at LivingSocial and was CEO of Singtel Digital Media
in Singapore. Levy was chief talent officer at the creative agency Landor, and
before that was in HR at Best Buy, Levi’s and Gap. In an emailed statement,
Airbnb said Rao would lead customer experience, trust and safety, as well as
local operations. Levy, meanwhile, will head up talent, leadership and
development and employee experience. Valued at $2.7 billion last year, and now
occupying one of the swankiest offices in San Francisco’s SOMA neighborhood,
Airbnb has basically filled out its executive ranks. The company’s three
founders — Brian Chesky, Nathan Blecharczyk and Joe Gebbia — are CEO, CTO and
CPO (chief product officer), respectively. Former Intuit finance exec Andrew
Swain is CFO, former Yahoo lawyer Belinda Johnson is general counsel, former
JetBlue and Hyatt exec Amy Curtis-McIntyre is CMO, and former Yahoo exec Kim
Rubey leads communications. Joie de Vivre founder Chip Conley has a bit of a
more unusual role as head of hospitality. So, what’s next for the company,
corporately speaking? In a conversation with reporters last month, Chesky
said, “We don’t have any immediate plans for an IPO at this moment. There are
good reasons [to go public], but we don’t have any at this time.” He also said
the company had no plans to raise more money. The company recently revamped
its mobile apps to give better support for its hosts, who control the bulk of
its customers’ experience. “By the end of this year, we want to be a primarily
mobile company,” Chesky said. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131204/filling-out-
its-executive-team-airbnb-hires-operations-and-hr-heads/feed/ 0 Top Microsoft
Finance Exec Koefoed Departs for Puppet Labs
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/top-microsoft-finance-exec-koefoed-departs-for-
puppet-labs/ http://allthingsd.com/20131204/top-microsoft-finance-exec-
koefoed-departs-for-puppet-labs/#comments Wed, 04 Dec 2013 21:08:58 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=376772 One of the voices I always enjoyed over the
years at the start of Microsoft earnings calls, Bill Koefoed, will be leaving
the software giant after eight years to take a job as CFO of Puppet Labs. Most
recently, he was working as CFO in the Skype and then in the marketing and
business development unit. But Koefoed is perhaps best known, as I called him,
as “Microsoft investor relations dude-in-chief.” Puppet Labs develops IT
automation software, with almost $46 million in funding from Kleiner Perkins,
Google Ventures, True Ventures, VMware and others. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/top-microsoft-finance-exec-koefoed-departs-for-
puppet-labs/feed/ 0 Rhode Island School of Design President John Maeda Departs
for Roles at Kleiner Perkins and eBay http://allthingsd.com/20131204/rhode-
island-school-of-design-president-john-maeda-departs-for-roles-at-kleiner-
perkins-and-ebay/ http://allthingsd.com/20131204/rhode-island-school-of-
design-president-john-maeda-departs-for-roles-at-kleiner-perkins-and-
ebay/#comments Wed, 04 Dec 2013 20:38:37 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=376681
John Maeda, the former MIT professor who is a director on the boards of Sonos
and Quirky, is leaving his job as president at the prestigious Rhode Island
School of Design to take a role at venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers. Maeda is expected to join Kleiner Perkins in January as a design
partner. He has also been tapped by eBay to lead the company’s newly-created
Design Advisory Board as chair, where he’ll spend a minority amount of his
time in a role that will report to eBay CEO John Donahoe, the company said in
a press release. In that role, Maeda will work with teams across eBay’s
Marketplace and enterprise business teams, as well as the PayPal unit. “I
firmly believe that art and design will transform our economy in the 21st
century the way that science and technology did in the last century,” Maeda
said in a statement. “Joining KPCB was an irresistible opportunity to work
alongside talented investment professionals and entrepreneurs to elevate
design to the forefront of leadership and innovation.” Maeda’s move to venture
capital is yet another indicator of the design fever that has swept across
Silicon Valley over the last two years. In November of 2012, Kleiner Perkins
started its own in-house design initiatives which aim to better aid
entrepreneurs and their startups. And competing firm Google Ventures has also
stepped up its efforts in the field, hiring a number of design-focused
partners and associates and planning design-centric events. In his new
position at Kleiner, Maeda will work closely with existing partners Mike
Abbott, Megan Quinn and Bing Gordon, all of whom are charged with leading the
firm’s Design Council program. He’ll work with the firm’s Design Fellows
Program — Kleiner’s mentorship program for college students — as well. Maeda
took the job as president of RISD in 2008. Prior to that, he taught at MIT for
12 years and served as the associate director of research at the MIT Media
Lab. He also sits on the board of global advertising firm Wieden+Kennedy. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/rhode-island-school-of-design-president-john-
maeda-departs-for-roles-at-kleiner-perkins-and-ebay/feed/ 0 Former Netflix DVD
Boss Andy Rendich Joins Payments Startup Clinkle
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/former-netflix-dvd-boss-andy-rendich-joins-
payments-startup-clinkle/ http://allthingsd.com/20131204/former-netflix-dvd-
boss-andy-rendich-joins-payments-startup-clinkle/#comments Wed, 04 Dec 2013
12:01:45 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=376553 Andy Rendich, the longtime
Netflix vet whom Reed Hastings had at one point tapped to run the quickly-
killed DVD business Qwikster, has been hired by Clinkle, the yet-to-launch
payments startup that recently hired ex-Netflixer Barry McCarthy as COO. At
Clinkle, which has already experienced high turnover despite its high-profile
backers, Rendich will run customer service and data warehouse operations. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131204/former-netflix-dvd-boss-andy-rendich-joins-
payments-startup-clinkle/feed/ 0