News Apple’s Selling More Macs Because It Finally Has More Macs to Sell
Published on February 26, 2013 by John Paczkowski Though supplies of its new
iMac remain somewhat constrained, Apple appears to be making some headway in
bringing supply of the machine into rough parity with demand. To wit, new data
from NPD that shows Mac sales up significantly this year. According to NPD
data cited by Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster, Mac sales rose 31 percent
year over year for the month of January. Why? Simple. Said Munster, “We
believe the reason for the significant improvement in the sales data is
primarily due to Apple catching up with iMac supply.” When Apple last reported
earnings, CEO Tim Cook noted that iMac supplies hadn’t been what the company
had hoped. “We left the quarter with significant constraints on the iMac,”
Cook said. “And we believe … that our sales would have been materially higher
if those constraints weren’t there.” Cook went on to pledge that Apple would
work hard to ramp up iMac production, though he cautioned that supply-demand
equilibrium may be something of a moving target in the short term. “On iMac,
we are confident that we are going to significantly increase the supply,” he
said. “But the demand here is very strong, and we are not certain that we will
achieve a supply-demand balance during the quarter.” On its face, the NPD
seems to bear this out. The increase in Mac sales is likely the result of
Apple improving production, but as the two-to-three-week/three-to-four-week
shipping times on the Apple Store suggest, the company is still having trouble
manufacturing enough iMacs to meet demand. Return to: Apple’s Selling More
Macs Because It Finally Has More Macs to Sell URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20130226/apples-selling-more-macs-because-it-finally-
has-more-macs-to-sell/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019
Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.