WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Ina Fried ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @inafried Recent
Posts by Ina Fried BlackBerry’s John Chen on What He Is Doing to Shake Up the
Phone Maker December 30, 2013 at 10:40 am PT Tweet Share Print BlackBerry CEO
John Chen insists that he has put in place much-needed changes that will help
turn around the struggling phone maker. “It was important to make swift and
impactful changes to ensure that our customers’ investments in BlackBerry’s
infrastructure and solutions are secure,” Chen wrote in an op-ed for CNBC that
posted on Monday. Chen has made some key changes, most notably outsourcing a
chunk of device manufacturing to Foxconn and reorganizing the company around a
few key areas, including services for businesses, the BBM messaging product,
the handset business and the world of non-phone devices that use the QNX
operating system BlackBerry acquired a couple years back. He’s also committed
the company to being profitable by fiscal 2016, canceled some planned products
and spiked plans for a major customer conference for 2014. However, the bigger
challenges remain those that BlackBerry has faced for several years now. While
some BlackBerry-dependent businesses have remained loyal, many other
corporations have opened up to iPhones and Android. Meanwhile, demand for new
BlackBerry 10 phones has been anemic, leading BlackBerry to take huge charges
reflecting the large volumes of unsold inventory for those products. In his
piece, Chen points out that BlackBerry remains the leader in the business of
managing mobile devices, larger than upstarts Mobile Iron, Good and AirWatch
combined. “When it comes to enterprise, we’re still the leader,” Chen said.
“Don’t be fooled by the competition’s rhetoric claiming to be more secure or
having more experience than BlackBerry.” Again, that’s true, but much of
BlackBerry’s strength is tied to its past, with plenty of stock brokers and
government workers carrying around devices running the older BlackBerry
operating system (and many of those also carry an iPhone or Android for their
personal stuff.) BlackBerry has made some moves to transition its server
software to manage those rival devices, in addition to BlackBerry phones. It
has also, for the first time, allowed BBM to run on non-BlackBerry devices.
Chen also promised to continue to use QNX, which BlackBerry bought to form the
basis of BB10, for non-phone devices. “Already the dominant machine-to-machine
technology of the automotive industry, new capabilities and cloud services are
being unveiled at CES in January, and we’re looking toward adjacent verticals
for expansion,” Chen said. There QNX is ahead of rivals, but faces increasing
competition as Apple lands automakers for its iOS in the Car initiative and
Google is reportedly aiming to do something similar with Android. Tagged with:
Android, BB10, BlackBerry, iOS, John Chen, Mobile, phones, QNX, smartphones
Another Longtime Windows Exec Heads for the Exit as 2013 Draws to a Close
December 31, 2013 at 1:03 pm PT Veteran Microsoft Engineer Jon DeVaan Leaving
After Almost 30 Years December 30, 2013 at 1:32 pm PT Bringing Inexpensive
Mobile Access to Researchers in Antarctica December 30, 2013 at 5:30 am PT
Investors Flock to Twitter, Like Facebook, as Year Draws to a Close December
24, 2013 at 12:29 pm PT Latest Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
section&query;=Mobilized Search » Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say
Goodbye and We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and
the Corrosion of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe
All the Crazy Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View
all today’s news » Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in
Product Reviews Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren
Goode in Product Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System
Offers Better Backup Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data
Beamed to Your Phone Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A
Solid Windows Tablet in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all
reviews » When AllThingsD began, we told readers we were aiming to present a
fusion of new-media timeliness and energy with old-media standards for quality
and ethics. And we hope you agree that we’ve done that.— Kara Swisher and Walt
Mossberg, in their farewell D post AllThingsD by Writer Walt Mossberg Kara
Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes
Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey
AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and opinion on
technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other sites in
this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different topics,
different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us » Contact Us »
Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms of Service »
Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily Headlines Email »
Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential figures in
technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All Things Digital.
» D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on Twitter: Select
Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple) @ATDgoogle (Google)
@ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews (Reviews) @waltmossberg
(Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher) @JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski)
@kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka (Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried)
@LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren
Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha (Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del
Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News Reviews Mobile Media Social
Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital
Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile
Version