AllThingsD » Qualcomm http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Will Microsoft Name Its CEO Before the New Year?
Weary Employees Hope for Even Sooner. (Poll)
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/will-microsoft-name-its-ceo-before-the-new-
year-weary-microsoft-employees-hope-for-even-sooner/
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/will-microsoft-name-its-ceo-before-the-new-
year-weary-microsoft-employees-hope-for-even-sooner/#comments Mon, 16 Dec 2013
12:15:07 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=378894 Here’s the only thing that’s
completely clear: The search for a Microsoft CEO has become a bit of a circus
over the last few weeks. First, Ford CEO Alan Mulally seemed to be a shoo-in,
issuing a series of cunning non-denial denials about his intent. But that was
blown up when the chairman of the car company said the high-profile executive
was there to stay — at least through 2014 — while Mulally did his fantastic
Cheshire Cat routine. Then, at the end of last week, Ford said that it would
hold a last-minute analyst meeting this week, without specifying what the
topic was. Did that mean the candidacy of Mulally was going to be officially
ended? Or would the meeting be about the Mustang and not Mulally? Or perhaps
that the frontrunner who was fading had gained some wind in the final stages
and would race across the finish line for the Microsoft win? Most certainly,
it would not be Qualcomm’s Steve Mollenkopf to win, place or show. Contrary to
a report that he would be the dark-horse candidate for Microsoft CEO, he was
named CEO of the chipmaker a day later. Oops! Next dark horse, please trot
forward! (At this point, I vote for Bill Gates’s triumphant return, complete
with trumpets and flourishes.) And what of the internal trio of candidates —
enterprise chief Satya Nadella, strategy head Tony Bates and Nokia’s Stephen
Elop? Nadella has seemingly been all over the place this week, perhaps perfect
timing to test out how good his charm can be. His public appearances were
obviously planned months in advance, but my verdict is it works and he comes
across as still a geek, but a super nice one. Bates and Elop were, in
comparison, not in the spotlight. But not completely, creating a deep
uncertainty inside Microsoft, and causing a great deal of consternation among
its employees. In dozens of interviews last week, staffers talked about a
system that is essentially stopped up, despite increasingly active outgoing
CEO Steve Ballmer moving across the organization in a series of ever-louder
meetings. At a meeting of 500 directors and above, he talked about Windows 8
and its failures. In another, he spoke of creating gamer-focused PCs, as if he
had years to go in his tenure. In another, he apparently cried at the prospect
that there would be no more years. Employees, though, seem ready for a change
— and soon. “Everyone is just waiting for the decision,” said one high-ranking
exec, in what was a common refrain. “Even though we are supposed to be
carrying out the new One Microsoft plan that Ballmer created, it’s pretty much
a wait-and-see for everyone.” Said another engineer: “It’s not clear if the
company and the new management that was just put into place will stay there
with a new CEO, so it’s just easier to look busy without actually being busy.”
And another product manager: “We can’t really wait, since things are moving so
fast at other companies, so everyone is hoping for a resolution before the new
year … it would be a symbol that change is finally going to come here.” It
goes on and on like that, with everyone I spoke to not really knowing what
will happen, up to near the top of the company. So they await the machinations
of the Microsoft board — which seems to have been unable to do one of its key
jobs: Having a solid, easy-to-follow succession plan in place before Ballmer
announced his pending departure. Those familiar with the board’s thinking make
the excuse that Ballmer was not supposed to leave quite this soon, so such a
plan was not properly put in place. Perhaps, although that leaves out the
pertinent fact that the directors played a key role in that particular drama.
And, of course, there are those who point the finger at Ballmer himself for
quashing all potential CEOs-in-training over the years. Gone, Kevin Johnson.
Gone, Bob Muglia. Gone, Robbie Bach. Gone, Ray Ozzie. Gone, Steve Sinofsky.
That last one was perhaps more dramatic than others, but they all pointed in
one direction. And that is: This big decision — perhaps the most significant
in Microsoft’s long history — was destined to be a circus or a crazy horse
race, or whatever you want to call it. The funny thing is that calling it —
making a CEO choice — would be the best holiday present Microsoft employees
could possibly receive. But it might be a gift that will have to wait until
next year. Until we know who this fretting board picks, please take this
survey to pick whom you would favor: View This Poll ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131216/will-microsoft-name-its-ceo-before-the-new-
year-weary-microsoft-employees-hope-for-even-sooner/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Taps
Steve Mollenkopf, Rumored as Microsoft Successor, as Its Next CEO
http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-
microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/ http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-
taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/#comments
Fri, 13 Dec 2013 14:04:03 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=378613 A day after he
was mentioned in a news report as a possible dark-horse successor to outgoing
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, Steve Mollenkopf, COO of wireless chipmaker
Qualcomm, has been named as the company’s next CEO. Mollenkopf will replace
Paul Jacobs, who will remain executive chairman of Qualcomm, and who is the
son of the company’s founder, Irwin Jacobs. The appointment will become
effective on March 4. Bloomberg News reported yesterday that Mollenkopf had
emerged as a new name in the race to succeed Ballmer. The software giant has
considered several outside candidates, including Ford CEO Alan Mulally and
VMware CEO Pat Gelsinger. Internal candidates include Tony Bates, Microsoft’s
current head of business development, and its enterprise chief, Satya Nadella.
Mollenkopf has been with Qualcomm since 1994, and has recently led its
wireless-chipset business unit, known as QCT. On his watch, the company
acquired the Wi-Fi-chip company Atheros in 2011 for $3.1 billion. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131213/qualcomm-taps-steve-mollenkopf-rumored-as-
microsoft-successor-as-its-next-ceo/feed/ 0 One of the Warring Wireless-
Charging Factions Adopts Rezence Brand Name
http://allthingsd.com/20131212/one-of-the-warring-wireless-charging-factions-
adopts-new-brand-name/ http://allthingsd.com/20131212/one-of-the-warring-
wireless-charging-factions-adopts-new-brand-name/#comments Thu, 12 Dec 2013
13:00:20 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=378334 The Alliance for Wireless Power
— one of three competing standards efforts in the wireless-changing market —
is adopting a new consumer brand name as it nears the market with the first
products. While the group will keep the A4WP name for its membership, products
that support the standard will carry the Rezence brand name, along with a new
logo that resembles a Z with a lightning bolt. The A4WP is the last of the
three major efforts to see compatible products come to market, with the Power
Matters Alliance and Wireless Power Consortium already having at least initial
products on the market. However, the A4WP uses a resonant-charging approach
that allows for multiple devices to be charged in a single space, something
the other standards bodies are now working to in the next version of their
specification. At CES in January, the alliance plans to show off prerelease
phones and chargers with the Rezence technology built in, with expectations
that products will be in consumers’ hands by the first half of next year. The
A4WP recently signed its first PC maker to the group — the first of the
computer makers to join any of the efforts. But what’s really needed for
wireless charging to take off, even according to many of those that have
backed one standard over the others, is for the three efforts to come
together. Broadcom co-founder Henry Samueli said earlier this month that the
groups are starting to talk, and predicted that a common effort would be
settled on sometime next year. Gary Matos, an Intel worker who serves as
director of strategic marketing for the A4WP, agreed that, eventually, a peace
is needed. “Convergence will need to take place,” he said. “I suspect it is
not going to be too, too far off in the future.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131212/one-of-the-warring-wireless-charging-factions-
adopts-new-brand-name/feed/ 0 Linux Foundation, Host of Consumer Electronics
Firms, Line Up Behind New "Internet of Things" Standard
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/linux-foundation-host-of-consumer-electronics-
firms-line-up-behind-new-internet-of-things-standard/
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/linux-foundation-host-of-consumer-electronics-
firms-line-up-behind-new-internet-of-things-standard/#comments Tue, 10 Dec
2013 05:29:49 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377759 The Linux Foundation said
on Monday that it has lined up a number of big-name tech firms behind a new
AllSeen Alliance designed to ensure easy connections among the various devices
and objects that will be Internet-enabled in the coming years. Founding
members of the group include Haier, LG Electronics, Panasonic, Qualcomm,
Sharp, Silicon Image and TP-Link. The effort is being built upon Qualcomm’s
AllJoyn open-source project. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131209/linux-
foundation-host-of-consumer-electronics-firms-line-up-behind-new-internet-of-
things-standard/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Introduces Its First 64-Bit Chip, Though This
One Takes Aim at the Low End http://allthingsd.com/20131209/qualcomm-
introduces-its-first-64-bit-chip-though-this-one-takes-aim-at-the-low-end/
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/qualcomm-introduces-its-first-64-bit-chip-
though-this-one-takes-aim-at-the-low-end/#comments Mon, 09 Dec 2013 21:15:50
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377475 Qualcomm is detailing on Monday a new
entry-level mobile processor that packs a number of high-end features. The
Snapdragon 410 is designed for phones that sell for $150 or less but includes,
among other features, support for high-speed LTE networks and improved
graphics. It is also the company’s first 64-bit-capable mobile chip. The
addition of 64-bit capability is a tad awkward for Qualcomm, though. Earlier
this year, Qualcomm’s then-chief marketing officer, Anand Chandrasekher,
called Apple’s introduction of 64-bit chips a “gimmick.” “I think they are
doing a marketing gimmick,” Chandrasekher told IDG News Service. “There’s zero
benefit a consumer gets from that.” Qualcomm quickly backtracked from the
comment, though, and reassigned the former Intel executive to a vaguely
defined new role. Update, 2:25 p.m. PT: Products using the Snapdragon 410 are
expected in the second half of next year. Although Qualcomm is bringing 64-bit
to the low-end first, this is likely a matter of timing and one can expect to
see it throughout the Snapdragon range, although Qualcomm isn’t giving
specifics of when the other chips in the line will get the capability. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131209/qualcomm-introduces-its-first-64-bit-chip-
though-this-one-takes-aim-at-the-low-end/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Says China Is
Investigating Whether Firm Broke Its Anti-Monopoly Law
http://allthingsd.com/20131125/qualcomm-says-china-is-investigating-whether-
firm-broke-its-anti-monopoly-law/ http://allthingsd.com/20131125/qualcomm-
says-china-is-investigating-whether-firm-broke-its-anti-monopoly-law/#comments
Mon, 25 Nov 2013 17:12:09 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=374929 Qualcomm said
Monday that a Chinese government agency is looking into whether the chipmaker
broke one of the country’s anti-monopoly laws. Asa Mathat | All Things Digital
In a statement, Qualcomm said that the substance of the investigation is
confidential, and that it is not aware of any charge that it has broken the
law. “We will continue to cooperate with the (Chinese government agency) as it
conducts its confidential investigation,” Qualcomm said. Qualcomm CEO Paul
Jacobs recently told The Wall Street Journal that it was seeing fallout in
China from the NSA scandal and other issues. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131125/qualcomm-says-china-is-investigating-whether-
firm-broke-its-anti-monopoly-law/feed/ 0 Qualcomm CEO Says NSA Fallout
Impacting China Business http://allthingsd.com/20131123/qualcomm-ceo-says-nsa-
fallout-impacting-china-business/ http://allthingsd.com/20131123/qualcomm-ceo-
says-nsa-fallout-impacting-china-business/#comments Sat, 23 Nov 2013 18:00:40
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=374659 Mobile device chipmaker Qualcomm Inc.
expects to continue growing in China, but Chief Executive Paul Jacobs
acknowledged U.S. restrictions on Chinese companies and revelations about
surveillance by the National Security Agency are impacting its business in the
fast-growing country. “We are definitely seeing increased pressure,” said Mr.
Jacobs in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. “All U.S. tech companies
are seeing pressure.” Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131123/qualcomm-ceo-says-nsa-fallout-impacting-china-
business/feed/ 0 Intel Chairman: "We Seemed to Have Lost Our Way"
http://allthingsd.com/20131121/intel-chairman-we-seemed-to-have-lost-our-way/
http://allthingsd.com/20131121/intel-chairman-we-seemed-to-have-lost-our-
way/#comments Thu, 21 Nov 2013 16:37:22 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=374241
Long a beneficiary of the falling cost of computing power, chipmaker Intel
acknowledged Thursday that it was beaten at its own game. Moore’s law, the
industry term coined by Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, suggests that computing
will always get cheaper and smaller, but it was Intel’s rivals that benefitted
from the most recent shifts to tablets and mobile devices. “We’re paying a
price for that right now,” Andy Bryant, a longtime Intel executive who now
serves as the chipmaker’s chairman, explained Thursday. The data was there to
see the shift coming but Intel missed it, Bryant said, kicking off a day-long
investor meeting at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. “I was
personally embarrassed that we seemed to have lost our way,” Bryant said. In
picking Brian Krzanich as CEO, Bryant said the company found someone who would
look at the world as it is, not as how Intel wishes it could be. “His impact
on strategies is starting to be felt.” For his part, Krzanich said Intel still
believes its technology can be at the core of all types of computing devices,
from the biggest servers, through PCs and tablets, to phones and smaller
devices. Also, the company touted its growing effort to let other companies
use its manufacturing prowess. “The PC market is beginning to see signs of
stabilization,” Krzanich said. It’s still forecast to decline, but that
decline is slowing, he said. “What we need to watch is the emerging market.”
PC prices have also been dropping to never before seen lows, including capable
computers below $300. In the data center, the company is forecasting continued
growth of 15 percent through 2016. On mobile, Intel has struggled, but
Krzanich pointed to a few design wins, the most notable of which is a single
Samsung Galaxy tablet model. “For us, 2013 was a year of establishing a
footprint,” Krzanich said. In the coming year, the goal is to more than
quadruple Intel’s tablet business, pushing it to more than 40 million units.
“We’ve got to have that footprint,” Krzanich explained. “We’ve got to have
that scale.” The company wants to bring PC technology to Android, including
enterprise support and 64-bit processing. Intel, Krzanich said, will be in
tablets throughout the market, including models below $100. Intel, he said,
also allows computer and tablet makers to create a single design that can be
loaded with multiple operating systems, whether Windows, Chrome OS or Android.
On the phone side, Intel is going to focus more on larger players, Krzanich
said. Until now, Intel has mostly targeted smaller manufacturers willing to
sell devices built largely on Intel-based reference designs. Krzanich also
talked about two upcoming chips. Broxton, due in mid-2015, is aimed at the
high end of the market. Sofia, due in the second half of 2014, is aimed at the
value end of the market. Sofia integrates more features, but is made outside
Intel’s factories. The following year the company will aim to bring production
in-house using a 14-nanometer chipmaking process. “Three months ago this
wasn’t on the roadmap,” Krzanich said of Sofia. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131121/intel-chairman-we-seemed-to-have-lost-our-
way/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Announces Faster Snapdragon 805 Mobile Chip, Aims to Make
the Home Router Smarter http://allthingsd.com/20131120/qualcomm-announces-
faster-snapdragon-805-mobile-chip-aims-to-make-the-home-router-smarter/
http://allthingsd.com/20131120/qualcomm-announces-faster-
snapdragon-805-mobile-chip-aims-to-make-the-home-router-smarter/#comments Wed,
20 Nov 2013 12:30:47 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=373862 Qualcomm is
announcing on Wednesday a faster version of its high-end Snapdragon chip and a
separate effort to take on a more central role in powering networking gear.
Asa Mathat | All Things Digital In its Snapdragon line, the company is
debuting the Snapdragon 805, which it said packs up to 40 percent faster
graphics performance and support for UltraHD (4K) video. That chip is sampling
now and expected to show up in mobile devices by the first half of next year.
The other big announcement — the new IPQ chip — is designed to transform home
Internet gear the way that smartphones changed the shape of the cellular phone
market. “We want to do the same for the home,” said Amir Faintuch, a Qualcomm
senior VP and head of the company’s Qualcomm Atheros unit. The chipmaker is
making the announcements at its yearly meeting with analysts being held on
Wednesday. Faintuch argues that the time is right to put more powerful chips
into home networking gear. “Today we have a very simple, primitive yet
sufficient network processor” powering most of that gear, Faintuch said. That
has been fine in a world where access points have to connect to a computer or
two and maybe a television and set-top box. But the routers and hubs of the
future will have to manage far faster connections and dozens of devices,
necessitating a new level of processors, Faintuch said. Faintuch said that the
chip is now sampling to customers, with initial IPQ-based products expected in
the first quarter of next year. “Timing is key,” he said. Qualcomm actually
placed its bet a while ago, agreeing in January 2011 to pay $3.1 billion to
acquire Wi-Fi chip specialist Atheros. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131120/qualcomm-announces-faster-
snapdragon-805-mobile-chip-aims-to-make-the-home-router-smarter/feed/ 0
Qualcomm's Toq Smartwatch a Few Ticks Behind Schedule
http://allthingsd.com/20131107/qualcomms-toq-smartwatch-a-few-ticks-behind-
schedule/ http://allthingsd.com/20131107/qualcomms-toq-smartwatch-a-few-ticks-
behind-schedule/#comments Thu, 07 Nov 2013 18:08:42 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=371279 Qualcomm’s surprise entry into the smartwatch
space is running a bit slow. When the company announced the Toq smartwatch in
September, it was aiming to ship the first watches by mid-October. That date
has come and gone, but Qualcomm said it still hopes to have products available
for the holidays. Qualcomm didn’t give a specific new date for Toq (pronounced
“tock”), but it seems like if it isn’t available by Black Friday, it will be
hard to claim it as available for the holidays. In the meantime, both Sony’s
SmartWatch 2 and Samsung’s Galaxy Gear (announced the same day as Toq) have
started shipping, while Pebble just got a significant software update. Of
course, Qualcomm is using the Toq as much as an expression of what is possible
using the company’s Mirasol display and other Qualcomm technologies as it is a
product that the company expects to be a big commercial hit. “We expect to
make tens of thousands of these, not hundreds of thousands,” Qualcomm
executive Rob Chandhok said in an interview at the time of the announcement.
“A success, for us, looks like our partners picking up and running with this.
Qualcomm isn’t turning into a consumer electronics company.” Similar to the
other smartwatches, the Toq is designed mainly to serve as a companion to a
smartphone, delivering notifications and acting as a remote control. Toq,
which is expected to sell for about $300, will work with various Android
phones. A key differentiator is the Mirasol screen, which has some of the
battery-sipping properties of E Ink while still offering a color display. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131107/qualcomms-toq-smartwatch-a-few-ticks-behind-
schedule/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Issues Upbeat Earnings Report, But Guidance
Disappoints Investors http://allthingsd.com/20131106/qualcomm-issues-upbeat-
earnings-report-sees-good-times-continuing-for-years/
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/qualcomm-issues-upbeat-earnings-report-sees-
good-times-continuing-for-years/#comments Wed, 06 Nov 2013 21:43:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=371064 Qualcomm on Wednesday issued an earnings
report that largely exceeded expectations and said it sees continued strong
growth buoyed by expansion of 3G and 4G phones to more parts of the world. For
the quarter ending Sept. 29, Qualcomm said that it earned an adjusted $1.05
per share, including a 10-cent-per-share litigation charge. Even with the
charge, it said earnings were within its guidance and it would have exceeded
the high end of its expectations had it not been for the charge. On the
revenue side, the company took in $6.48 billion, up 33 percent from a year
ago, and above the midpoint of its guidance. The company slightly hiked its
forecast for this year for total 3G and 4G device shipments, saying it now
expects about 1.1 billion such devices to ship, with calendar year 2014
shipments seen somewhere between 1.22 billion and 1.3 billion units, a roughly
15 percent increase based on the midpoint of that range. “Looking forward, we
expect continued strong growth of 3G and 3G/4G multimode devices around the
world, particularly in China with the anticipated launch of LTE,” CEO Paul
Jacobs said in a statement. “Qualcomm remains well positioned from a growth
standpoint, and we expect double-digit compound annual growth rates for both
revenues and earnings per share over the next five years.” Update: However,
the forecast for the current quarter earnings and revenue was less than some
investors were expecting, sending shares lower in after-hours trading. Shares
changed hands recently at $66.78, down $2.96 or 4.24 percent. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/qualcomm-issues-upbeat-earnings-report-sees-
good-times-continuing-for-years/feed/ 0 With 190,000 Smartwatches Sold, Pebble
Boosts iPhone Support http://allthingsd.com/20131106/with-190000-smartwatches-
sold-pebble-boosts-iphone-support/
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/with-190000-smartwatches-sold-pebble-boosts-
iphone-support/#comments Wed, 06 Nov 2013 18:00:55 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=370845 It has been a busy year for the team behind
Pebble. The company has gone from a tiny, 11-person outfit trying to deliver
promised smartwatches to its Kickstarter backers to a growing 40-person
business looking to cement its role as a serious player in wearable
technology. “It’s been a crazy ride,” CEO Eric Migicovsky said in an interview
on Tuesday. Migicovsky noted that Pebble, which began as a dream on
Kickstarter, has now sold 190,000 units at $150 apiece. Kickstarter backers
accounted for the first 85,000 sales. But, the majority — and all those sold
since July — have gone to new customers, including sales through AT&T; and
Best Buy stores. On Wednesday, Pebble is announcing a software update designed
to make the watch more useful for those running Apple’s new iOS 7 operating
system. The update will allow customers to see all manner of notifications on
their device, instead of those related solely to communication: Instant
messages, email and incoming calls. In addition, Pebble is expanding the
capabilities that developers can access in writing apps for the watch.
Programmers will be able to store data on the device itself, rather than
constantly having to send it from a linked phone. They will also have access
to a JavaScript engine that will be built into the Pebble app for both iOS and
Android devices. The hoped-for result is that developers will be able to more
easily create programs that access the Web. Early partners for Pebble’s new
software capabilities include Yelp, which will serve up local data to the
watch, and Foursquare, which will allow users to check in from the device.
Pebble has also worked with GoPro to create a watch app that controls the
latest version of the adventure camera. Remote-controlling other devices and
apps is a growing area of interest, Migicovsky said. Pebble is also announcing
Wednesday that it now has all colors of the watch in stock. Great news for the
company, which has long been supply constrained and is facing increasing
competition as big-name companies take aim at the market it hopes to corner.
Already, Qualcomm, Sony and Samsung have fielded smartwatches of their own.
And, if rumors are true, Google and Apple will someday, as well. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/with-190000-smartwatches-sold-pebble-boosts-
iphone-support/feed/ 0 iPad Air Has Spendier Display, Costs Less to Make Than
Earlier Models http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-air-has-spendier-display-
costs-less-to-make-than-earlier-models/ http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-
air-has-spendier-display-costs-less-to-make-than-earlier-models/#comments Tue,
05 Nov 2013 12:30:14 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=370543 There’s a new iPad
in town, and that means the folks at research firm IHS are once again doing
what they do best: Taking it apart for a look inside. In the latest of its
teardown analysis reports obtained by AllThingsD, the firm said that Apple’s
iPad Air (see Walt Mossberg’s review) costs between $274 and $361 to build,
depending on the model. The device sells at retail for a starting price of
$499 for the base 16-gigabyte Wi-Fi only model, and for as much as $929 for a
128GB model with Wi-Fi plus cellular data service. I talked with Andrew
Rassweiler, the analyst who oversees the teardown work at IHS’s lab in Los
Angeles. “What I expected to see inside was basically an iPhone 5s with a
bigger display,” he said. “That was a little true, but a little not.” Some key
changes occurred on the iPad Air from the third-generation iPad, which was the
last full-sized model IHS studied. (There was, of course, the first iPad mini
last year.) The biggest changes, he said, were with the display and
touchscreen assembly. For one thing, it’s thinner and has fewer layers in the
combined assembly than in previous models. But, at an estimated combined cost
of $133 (about $90 for the display and $43 for the touchscreen parts), it’s a
lot more expensive than before, he said. South Korean electronics companies LG
Display and Samsung are both thought to be suppliers of the display, he said.
For the touchscreen bit, there’s a new type of sensor known as a cyclic-olefin
polymer sensor that sits underneath the outer layer of Gorilla Glass that
users touch. What used to require two layers of glass, Rassweiler said, now
requires only one. As a result, the whole assembly measures out to 1.8
millimeters thick, versus 2.23 millimeters on the third-generation model.
There are also fewer LED lights providing the backlighting to the display than
before. The brightness that once required 84 LED lights is now being
accomplished with only 36. Rassweiler said that while it’s possible that the
LED lights are brighter and more efficient than in previous models, Apple is
also using thin layers of optical film to distribute the light from the LEDs
across the entire display. “These optical films don’t get the credit they
deserve,” he said. Fewer LEDs cuts down on the weight and the power drain to
the battery. But even with a more expensive display, the total component cost
of the base model, at $274, is still $42 cheaper than the entry-level third-
generation iPad. That’s because not much else inside the iPad has changed
drastically since then. Yes, there’s a new Apple chip, the A7, but at an
estimated cost to Apple of $18 (Samsung still manufacturers it for Apple under
contract), it costs five dollars less per unit than the A5 processor did 18
months ago. Dialog Semiconductor produces a power-management chip that goes
with it, though this one is bigger than the one seen in the iPhone 5s. Other
suppliers include Qualcomm, which provided cellular data network chips at a
cost of $32 for the four models that are LTE-ready. Skyworks, Avago
Technologies and TriQuint Semiconductor all supplied different bits of the
wireless technology. With the iPad Air, Apple appears to have reached a new
milestone on the wireless front: It can support every LTE frequency with a
single combination of chips. “This is something Apple tried to do with the
iPhone 5s and 5c, but it couldn’t quite get there,” Rassweiler said. “One
single model of the iPad Air is able to work with all U.S. wireless carriers.”
The benefit: Less variation of models mean lower total costs overall, and
higher gross profits. He said there’s probably not enough space to pack all
the chips required into the smaller enclosure of an iPhone. As chips get
smaller, future iPhone models will likely benefit from a single model for all
carriers, too, just not yet. Other component suppliers have been spotted in
previous iPad models: Broadcom supplied a controller chip for the touchscreen.
Cirrus Logic supplied an audio chip. STMicroelectronics supplied a gyroscope
chip. Bosch Sensortec supplied the accelerometer. And AKM Semiconductor
supplied a compass chip. Elpida, a unit of Idaho-based Micron Technology, was
spotted as the supplier of the DRAM memory chips in the unit IHS examined,
though other memory chip vendors are known Apple suppliers, including SK Hynix
and Samsung, adding about $10 to the component cost. Similarly, IHS found
Toshiba-made flash-memory chips in its teardown specimen, though, again,
Samsung and SK Hynix are known flash suppliers, as well. Depending on the
model, flash chips account for between $9 and $60 of the component cost. All
told, IHS estimates Apple’s implied gross margins on the iPad to range from 45
percent on the 16GB Wi-Fi only version to 61 percent on the 128GB LTE version.
Below is the call-out slide from IHS’s presentation report. It’s basically a
labeled version of the “exploded view” image above. You can click to make it
bigger: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-air-has-spendier-display-
costs-less-to-make-than-earlier-models/feed/ 0 Qualcomm in Talks to Join
Cerberus and BlackBerry Co-Founders on Possible Bid
http://allthingsd.com/20131101/cerberus-explores-joint-bid-for-blackberry/
http://allthingsd.com/20131101/cerberus-explores-joint-bid-for-
blackberry/#comments Fri, 01 Nov 2013 20:20:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=369927 Qualcomm Inc. is in talks to join a possible
bid for BlackBerry Ltd. that is being spearheaded by two of the beleaguered
smartphone maker’s co-founders, according to people familiar with the matter.
Qualcomm is contemplating joining private-equity Cerberus Capital Management
LP, which is also in talks to join Mike Lazaridis and Doug Fregin, the
BlackBerry co-founders who have said they are considering a bid as part of an
auction of the company, which is expected to come to a head with a bid
deadline Monday. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131101/cerberus-explores-joint-bid-for-
blackberry/feed/ 0 Magisto Lands $13 Million Investment for Polished Home
Movies on Your Phone http://allthingsd.com/20131029/magisto-lands-13-million-
investment-for-polished-home-movies-on-your-phone/
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/magisto-lands-13-million-investment-for-
polished-home-movies-on-your-phone/#comments Tue, 29 Oct 2013 12:37:46 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=368936 All those videos that we shoot with our
iPhones and Android devices and upload to YouTube and Facebook are great, but
they’re pretty raw. Editing them and making them look a little more polished —
indeed, telling something of a story — still takes time and attention to
editing, which more often than not means uploading the video first to a
computer and then mucking around with cuts and transitions in the video-
editing platform of your choice. An Israeli startup called Magisto is aiming
to change that with a video platform that automates the process of editing and
sharing home videos. From various clips stored on your phone, the service uses
artificial intelligence to pick the best bits of video, stitch them together
and set the whole thing to music. The company calls it “video storytelling,”
and it claims some 13 million customers. Today, Magisto said it had landed a
$13 million strategic investment from Qualcomm Ventures, the investment arm of
the wireless chip company, and SanDisk Ventures, the flash-memory
manufacturer. Existing investors Magma Venture Partners and Li Ka-shing’s
Horizons Ventures also participated. The funding comes as the company has done
a major revamp of its website, where customers share their videos. It’s also
something of a confidence vote in the platform from two big wireless-component
suppliers. Qualcomm chips show up in more than half of the world’s
smartphones, according to recent data from research firm Strategy Analytics.
SanDisk, known best for its flash-memory cards used in digital cameras, is a
big supplier of flash chips for use in phones, and has its roots in Israel.
(Image is a grab from the Magisto website.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/magisto-lands-13-million-investment-for-
polished-home-movies-on-your-phone/feed/ 0 Update to Windows Phone Paves Way
for Devices With Larger Screens, Quad-Core Chips
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/update-to-windows-phone-paves-way-for-larger-
screen-devices-adds-a-couple-other-minor-features/
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/update-to-windows-phone-paves-way-for-larger-
screen-devices-adds-a-couple-other-minor-features/#comments Mon, 14 Oct 2013
12:00:10 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365040 Microsoft is announcing on
Monday a software update that will add support for large, high-resolution
displays, as well as Qualcomm’s quad-core Snapdragon 800 processor. Nokia is
due to introduce a variety of new products at an Oct. 22 event in Abu Dhabi,
and a large-screen 1080p phone is among those. New devices are likely to be
the first to get the new software, though it will also be made available to
existing Windows Phone 8 owners. The new software update also adds a driving
mode that can be automatically set to respond to calls and incoming texts with
a preset message. (Microsoft had developed Driving Mode as part of its
planning for Windows Phone 8, but the feature ended up getting cut before the
software was released.) Other features in this update include the ability to
lock screen rotation, manually close apps and more easily manage storage. It’s
the third update for Windows Phone 8 since it was released a year ago. The
updates have all been fairly minor in terms of the features made available to
customers, but Joe Belfiore, corporate vice president and manager for Windows
Phone program management, said they have been critical in allowing Microsoft
and its partners to go after new countries and new market segments. “The work
we are doing is valuable, and a lot of people aren’t aware of it,” Belfiore
said. As for when a more substantive update is coming, Belfiore declined to
say, though he acknowledged that the company is working on the next major
release of Windows Phone. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131014/update-to-
windows-phone-paves-way-for-larger-screen-devices-adds-a-couple-other-minor-
features/feed/ 0 Facebook Acquires Israeli Mobile Analytics Startup Onavo
http://allthingsd.com/20131013/facebook-acquires-israeli-mobile-data-
management-startup-onavo/ http://allthingsd.com/20131013/facebook-acquires-
israeli-mobile-data-management-startup-onavo/#comments Mon, 14 Oct 2013
06:39:23 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365200 Facebook announced on Monday
that it has acquired Onavo, a Tel Aviv, Israel-based startup focused on
intelligence around mobile application data. Facebook will acquire both talent
and technology as a result of the acquisition — the terms of which were not
disclosed — and will also turn Onavo’s Tel Aviv headquarters into Facebook’s
new Israel office, a first for the social giant. Founded in 2010, Onavo
dabbles in a number of areas, including mobile app analytics and measurement
for marketers (and reporters), as well as in a mobile security division. It is
data management and compression, however, that makes up the bulk of the
company’s efforts — and is likely the area that Facebook cares the most about.
Onavo offers apps such as “Count,” which monitors the data you use on your
smartphone, as well as “Extend,” which shrinks the total amount of information
you download on your phone, to maximize your data plan. These services in
particular are in line with the goals of Internet.org, the effort spearheaded
by Mark Zuckerberg in conjunction with a host of major global technology
companies, which aims to deliver connectivity to the billions of people across
the world who do not have Internet access. Ericsson, Nokia, Qualcomm and
Samsung are among some of the effort’s largest partners. It is a grand
mission, one could say, born out of a sense of enlightened self-interest;
Internet connectivity via mobile devices could bring economic and social
benefits to those in developing nations who don’t currently have online
access. But it also could be a long-term benefit to Facebook, ultimately
driving more people to sign up for the world’s largest social network. “Our
service helps people save money through more efficient use of data, and also
helps developers, large and small, design better experiences for people,”
Onavo co-founders Guy Rosen and Roi Tiger wrote in a company blog post early
Monday morning. “We’re excited to join their team, and hope to play a critical
role in reaching one of Internet.org’s most significant goals — using data
more efficiently, so that more people around the world can connect and share.”
Indeed, in Zuckerberg’s lengthy first treatise on Internet.org, one of the
three main methods he proposes to bring more people online seems in line with
the Onavo acquisition: “Using less data by improving the efficiency of the
apps and experiences we use,” Zuckerberg wrote. “Onavo will be an exciting
addition to Facebook,” a Facebook spokesman told AllThingsD. “We expect
Onavo’s data compression technology to play a central role in our mission to
connect more people to the Internet, and their analytic tools will help us
provide better, more efficient mobile products.” It is likely, too, that
Onavo’s other offerings could be helpful in convincing advertisers to spend
more money on Facebook. In August, Onavo launched its “Insights” product, a
way for app makers to determine how effective their mobile ad campaigns are in
driving new app downloads. Insights dips into data across ad networks to see
how different campaigns are faring, and also gives information on how people
use the apps. Facebook plans to keep the Onavo brand alive, according to the
company’s blog post, and its apps will continue to be available in Apple’s App
Store and the Google Play store for Android. The future of Onavo’s analytics
business under Facebook, however, is unclear. “We are beginning to evaluate
the next steps for the Onavo integration,” a spokesman told AllThingsD. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131013/facebook-acquires-israeli-mobile-data-
management-startup-onavo/feed/ 0 Lenovo Drops Intel for Qualcomm in Latest
K-Series Phone http://allthingsd.com/20131002/lenovo-drops-intel-for-qualcomm-
in-latest-k-series-phone/ http://allthingsd.com/20131002/lenovo-drops-intel-
for-qualcomm-in-latest-k-series-phone/#comments Wed, 02 Oct 2013 21:38:50
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=362542 Intel has had a tough time convincing
big-name phone makers to use its chips in their Android devices. The Lenovo
K900 And the path to acceptance appears to be getting bumpier. One of the
company’s few well-known customers is Lenovo, which used Intel’s Atom chip to
power its K900 smartphone. However, when it came time to create the successor
device, known as Vibe Z (and also by the codename K910), Lenovo decided to use
a chip from Qualcomm. Intel acknowledged the change, but downplayed the notion
that it meant an end to its place inside Lenovo phones. “Intel’s relationship
with Lenovo is longstanding and productive across a broad range of devices.
Just recently, they were among our launch partners for Bay Trail,” Intel said
in a statement to AllThingsD. “We’re taking a long-term view, and continue to
work closely with Lenovo on current and future mobile products.” In June,
Lenovo started selling the Intel Atom-powered K900 in Thailand and Malaysia,
bringing to eight the number of places the device has been sold. Motorola is
the only other prominent phone maker to include Intel chips, using them for
the Razr i that shipped in Europe. The company’s chips have also been used
sparingly in other devices, including a phone in India from Lava, from Megafon
in Russia and a handset sold by French carrier Orange. One of Intel’s
challenges has been the lack of built-in support for a broad range of
networks, including the fast LTE networks. The company has a standalone
multimode LTE chip and has said it wants to continue integrating support for
more functions into its processors. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131002/lenovo-
drops-intel-for-qualcomm-in-latest-k-series-phone/feed/ 0 HTC, Qualcomm Work
on Redesigning Smartphone Chip http://allthingsd.com/20131002/htc-qualcomm-
work-on-redesigning-smartphone-chip/ http://allthingsd.com/20131002/htc-
qualcomm-work-on-redesigning-smartphone-chip/#comments Wed, 02 Oct 2013
12:30:31 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=362351 Taiwan’s HTC Corp. is working
with Qualcomm Inc. on ways to alter a component for its flagship One
smartphone and other new devices, after a preliminary U.S. court win by
Finnish rival Nokia Corp. raised the possibility of an import ban in HTC’s
major overseas market, people familiar with the matter said. An International
Trade Commission judge made a preliminary ruling Sept. 23 that HTC infringed
on two Nokia radio-related patents that help enhance transmission and
reception of phone calls. Nokia’s filings with the ITC said that the chip
covered by the patents is made by Qualcomm. Read the rest of this post on the
original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131002/htc-qualcomm-work-on-
redesigning-smartphone-chip/feed/ 0 Qualcomm Now Has a Foot in All the
Wireless Charging Camps http://allthingsd.com/20131001/qualcomm-now-has-a-
foot-in-all-the-wireless-charging-camps/
http://allthingsd.com/20131001/qualcomm-now-has-a-foot-in-all-the-wireless-
charging-camps/#comments Tue, 01 Oct 2013 18:45:55 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=362205 Qualcomm, which has been a major backer of the
Alliance for Wireless Power, is now also taking part in two rival wireless-
charging-standards efforts. On Friday, the company announced that it had
joined the Wireless Power Consortium board of management, and the company
confirmed on Tuesday that it had also joined the Power Matters Alliance, where
it will co-chair a resonant-power working group. Qualcomm said that both the
WPC and PMA have announced plans to move toward the kind of resonant or
loosely coupled wireless power similar to Qualcomm’s WiPower. “By joining,
Qualcomm can bring its expertise in resonant wireless power to bear and to
look toward harmonization across wireless power standards,” Qualcomm said in a
statement to AllThingsD. “It is Qualcomm’s belief that the other entities can
leverage the work in resonant wireless charging that has been completed by the
Alliance for Wireless Power.” Each of the three wireless-charging groups has a
somewhat different take on wireless charging, as well as their own slate of
backers, though there is also some overlap in membership. The WPC and its Qi
brand have the lead when it comes to devices shipped, while the Power Matters
group has won backing from companies such as Starbucks, which is testing the
technology in Silicon Valley. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131001/qualcomm-now-
has-a-foot-in-all-the-wireless-charging-camps/feed/ 0 Intel, Microsoft Also
Eyeing Wearable Device Market http://allthingsd.com/20130927/intel-microsoft-
also-have-their-eye-on-wearable-device-market/
http://allthingsd.com/20130927/intel-microsoft-also-have-their-eye-on-
wearable-device-market/#comments Fri, 27 Sep 2013 12:00:13 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=361421 It’s fair to say that everyone who is anyone
in tech is trying to find a place in the budding market for wearable
technology. Google has its Glass eyewear and has also bought WIMM Labs, a
smartwatch maker. Samsung, Sony and Qualcomm have launched smartwatches of
their own. Apple hasn’t talked much, but is said to be working on a watch. CEO
Tim Cook did nothing to disabuse that notion during his appearance at our D11
conference in May. “There’s lots of things to solve in this space,” he said,
adding that it is an area that is “ripe for exploration.” But Apple isn’t
alone in trying to quietly develop a play in wearables. Both Intel and
Microsoft have “new devices” teams designed to look for ways to expand their
heritage into computing’s latest frontier. Former Palm and Apple executive
Mike Bell heads up Intel’s effort. Bell, who previously headed Intel’s mobile
phone and tablet unit, has been pretty quiet since assuming the new post.
However, he was quoted on Thursday in a press release announcing Intel
Capital’s investment in Recon Instruments, a five-year-old Canadian maker of
heads-up displays. “Wearable computing is a major, accelerating phenomenon
that re-defines how we use and interact with information,” Bell said in the
release. “In Recon Instruments, we see compelling technology and a solid
strategy to capitalize on the wearable revolution. This is an area of
significant focus for Intel Capital, and our investment in Recon Instruments
is a key part of our approach to innovation in this emerging space.” Intel
confirmed that wearable computing is among the new areas that Bell is
overseeing. “We’re actively working on multiple opportunities across
wearables,” an Intel representative told AllThingsD. “It’s an exciting
extension of computing, and we believe there will be a lot of innovation and
growth in this space.” Microsoft has been more circumspect about its interest
in wearables, though CEO Steve Ballmer made several references to working on
the next big thing, both at last week’s analyst meeting and during a
companywide meeting held Thursday. And during last month’s Windows unit
reorganization, Microsoft created a future special projects team alongside the
groups working on each of the existing Windows devices — phones, PCs, tablets
and Xbox. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130927/intel-microsoft-also-have-their-
eye-on-wearable-device-market/feed/ 0 Jeff Bezos Says Live-Help Button and
Other Features Make New Kindle Fire Tablets Uniquely Amazon (Video)
http://allthingsd.com/20130924/amazons-jeff-bezos-shows-off-the-latest-kindle-
fire-tablets/ http://allthingsd.com/20130924/amazons-jeff-bezos-shows-off-the-
latest-kindle-fire-tablets/#comments Wed, 25 Sep 2013 04:00:20 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=360476 Jeff Bezos presses the “Mayday” button on one
of Amazon’s new Kindle Fire HDX tablets. A few seconds later, a fresh-faced
twentysomething named Dylan pops up in a small window on the tablet, offering
live customer support. The Amazon CEO probably doesn’t need the help himself,
but he’s betting that plenty of average customers do — both those new to
technology and even those who are experienced, but don’t remember every
setting on their device. “Things that you do every day, you know how to do,
but things you do once every couple of months, you sort of forget,” Bezos said
in an interview at Amazon’s Seattle offices this week. “Describing to the
customer where to tap and what to do is very difficult. Here, our tech-support
agents can just draw on your screen.” The free 24/7 help service is one of
several new software features on the updated Kindle Fire tablets, which also
boast higher-resolution screens and faster processors (the latest quad-core
Snapdragon 800 chips from Qualcomm). A seven-inch version starts at $229,
while the 8.9-inch Kindle HDX starts at $379. Both models can also have AT&T;
or Verizon wireless data access built in, for an extra $100. The 8.9-inch
model is also a bit thinner, and a third lighter than last year’s large-screen
Kindle Fire. Amazon will also sell an entry-level seven-inch HD model for
$139. That version will start shipping Oct. 2, while the seven-inch HDX starts
shipping Oct. 15, and the 8.9-inch model begins shipping Nov. 7. As for
Mayday, Bezos said it is unclear just how much customers will use it, but said
that Amazon has thousands of people in Kindle support already, and is prepared
for the calls. “Initially, a lot of people will use it just to show it off,”
Bezos said. “We want to encourage that. It’s a ‘wow’ feature.” In addition to
the Mayday feature, the new Kindle Fire tablets are the first devices to
support a new Amazon Prime feature that lets certain of the company’s
streaming content library to be temporarily downloaded onto a device for
offline viewing. (Users have 30 days to watch the videos they download, and 48
hours to finish, once they start watching.) Kindle Fire HDX owners can also
fling a TV show from their tablet to certain Samsung TVs or other sets
connected to a PlayStation. As with Google’s Chromecast, the shows are not
being mirrored from the tablet, but rather streamed to the television from the
Internet. That leaves the tablet free to do other things, such as explore
Amazon’s second-screen content, powered by IMDb. And, with a touch of a
button, users can pull the video back to their tablets. It is features like
these and the Mayday help system that Bezos said Amazon is uniquely positioned
to offer. Drawing two partially overlapping circles on a whiteboard, Bezos
said that his company’s strength is the intersection between customer delight
and deep hardware/software integration. “This intersection is where some of
the hardest and coolest things can be built,” Bezos told AllThingsD. Bezos
notes that, while built on Android, Amazon works at all levels, from the
operating system through the apps and services, to deliver features that other
device makers can’t match. It’s much the same pitch Apple makes, though Bezos
adds that Amazon is unique in delivering premium tablets at non-premium
prices. Amazon’s low-level work, Bezos said, is what paves the way for a
battery-extending “reading mode” that offers 17 hours of use on a single
charge, compared with the 11 hours Amazon said is achieved in standard mixed
use of the device. As has become de rigueur for companies doing their own
tablets, Amazon also has its own take on the kickstand case. Amazon’s is a
magnetic case, called the Origami Cover for its ability to twist and fold into
different shapes. With the 8.9-inch model, which has an eight-megapixel rear-
facing camera, a slide down on the cover both reveals the lens and launches
the camera app. It has worked pretty well so far for Amazon. Bezos said the
company has sold “many, many millions of Kindles,” though, continuing with
tradition, he wouldn’t give any specific sales numbers. “We just don’t see any
upside in giving out the numbers,” Bezos said. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130924/amazons-jeff-bezos-shows-off-the-latest-kindle-
fire-tablets/feed/ 0 Teardown Shows iPhone 5S Costs at Least $199 to Build,
$173 for the 5C http://allthingsd.com/20130924/teardown-analysis-shows-
iphone-5s-costs-at-least-199-to-build-173-for-the-5c/
http://allthingsd.com/20130924/teardown-analysis-shows-iphone-5s-costs-at-
least-199-to-build-173-for-the-5c/#comments Tue, 24 Sep 2013 12:00:37 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=360394 New iPhones always gladden the hearts of the
analysts at the research firm IHS, because it means it’s time to tear the
phones apart. This year’s iPhone teardown project was twice as much fun,
because there are two phone models — the iPhone 5s, sporting its muscular A7
processor and an internal fingerprint sensor; and the iPhone 5c, which is at
first glance essentially an iPhone 5 with a candy-colored plastic shell. But,
as is often the case with Apple-designed products, looks can be deceiving. The
results of two teardown studies show that, aside from the most obvious
differences, the two phones are very much alike, internally. Indeed, Apple
likes it that way. But more on that in a moment. According the findings of an
IHS report coming tomorrow (but shared with AllThingsD today), Apple spends at
least $191 on components to build a 16 gigabyte iPhone 5s. The cost rises to
$210 for a 64GB unit. The cost of assembly adds another $8 per unit, bringing
the range to between $199 and $218. (Read Walt Mossberg’s review of the iPhone
5s here.) That cost estimate is pretty close to that of the original iPhone 5,
which IHS pegged at about $205 last year. Without a contract, the iPhone sells
at prices ranging from $649 to $849, depending on storage capacity. As with
prior iPhones, parts associated with the display command more of that sum than
anything else in the phone, amounting to a combined $41. IHS says the display
likely comes from several vendors, including Sharp (in which Apple made a
strategic investment), Japan Display Inc. and LG Display. On the colorful,
lower-priced iPhone 5c, IHS estimates that the cost of components plus
manufacturing ranges from $173 to $183, including $7 for assembly. The 5c
sells for between $549 and $649 without a contract. (Read Lauren Goode’s
review of the iPhone 5c here.) The differences between them are surprisingly
few, said IHS analyst Andrew Rassweiler, who oversaw the teardown work. “I
would say that they’re almost the same phone, except that the 5s has the
fingerprint sensor, the A7 processor and some newer memory chips that consume
less power. Beyond that, they’re basically the same,” he said. Rassweiler said
that Apple also appeared to show a lot of special attention to radio frequency
chips in both phones. “Apple seems to be spending a lot of time and money
combining RF chips,” he said. “Where other phone companies would be using
whatever chips its various vendors sell off-the-shelf, Apple seems to be
pushing its RF suppliers to do things they don’t do for anyone else.” Those
vendors, according to IHS’s analysis, are Qualcomm, Skyworks, Avago, RF Micro
Devices and TriQuint Semiconductor, all of which make chips that handle
different aspects of the iPhone’s connections to various wireless networks.
These efforts toward getting the radio frequency chips to work together have
the effect, Rassweiler said, of allowing the phones to support more frequency
bands in a single phone than before. “The iPhone 5 supported no more than five
LTE bands. The 5s and 5c can support as many as 13, and that’s unique,” he
said. “Unlike other phone designers, Apple has spent a lot of time
collaborating with the RF chip companies to find novel solutions that its
competitors don’t have.” Its good for Apple, because the fewer technical
variations of the iPhone there are, the more profitable the phones are likely
to be. Eventually, Rassweiler said, Apple may be able to produce a single
version of the phone that supports all the world’s frequency bands, no matter
what type of wireless network is present. The teardown shows that the Apple
used the same unique combination of RF chips in both the 5s and the 5c, at a
combined cost of $32. Indeed, the similarities between the two phones are
many: They have the same display, the same cameras, the same flash-memory
chips, and so on. The 5s has a fingerprint sensor likely designed by
Authentec, the fingerprint technology company for which Apple paid $356
million in an acquisition last year. (IHS pegs the cost of the fingerprint
sensor at $7.) It also has the higher-powered Apple A7 processor, which costs
about $19 and is manufactured by Samsung. The 5c has an A6 that costs about
$13 and is also manufactured by Samsung. Both chips are designed by Apple, and
are based on a core designed by ARM Holdings, the British chip-design firm.
The A7 is a 64-bit chip, more complex than the A6, which is a 32-bit chip. The
higher-end processor led Apple to choose higher-end memory chips to support it
in the 5s. Where the 5s sports a flavor of memory known as LPDDR3 (the LP
stands for “low power,” referring to its consumption), the 5c sports a
slightly older flavor of memory known as LPDDR2. (I could go on at length
about what the other letters stand for, but won’t. If you want to read more,
here are the basics.) “The newer memory is there to support the higher-end
processor,” Rassweiler said. Suppliers of the memory chips include SK Hynix —
the South Korean chip company that just experienced a fire at a plant in China
— along with Elpida and Samsung. As usual, I asked Apple for a comment on
IHS’s findings and, as usual, got none. One thing I always like about these
teardown reports is the “exploded view” image that always comes with them. The
IHS shot of the 5s is above, and as you’ve probably figured out, given the
appearance of the light-blue shell, the 5c is below. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130924/teardown-analysis-shows-iphone-5s-costs-at-
least-199-to-build-173-for-the-5c/feed/ 0 LG G2: A Solid Performer Held Back
by Design, Software Flaws http://allthingsd.com/20130919/lg-g2-a-solid-
performer-held-back-by-design-software-flaws/
http://allthingsd.com/20130919/lg-g2-a-solid-performer-held-back-by-design-
software-flaws/#comments Thu, 19 Sep 2013 13:00:35 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=359367 When people ask me for phone-buying advice,
more often than not the question goes something like this: Apple or Samsung?
And it’s not surprising to see why. The companies make two of the most popular
smartphones on the market, and they also have huge advertising campaigns that
get their names and products out in front of people. But that’s no reason to
discount the other players in the field. The HTC One and Motorola X are both
capable Android phones worth considering, and now LG is looking to be part of
the conversation with its latest flagship device, the LG G2. The G2 is
available now from AT&T;, Verizon and T-Mobile, and Sprint will offer the
phone next month. The price is $200 on contract, with T-Mobile selling it for
$100 down and 24 equal monthly payments of $21 on its Simple Choice plan.
Though LG is no stranger to the phone business, the company’s U.S. offerings
haven’t been standouts, so it’s trying some new tricks with the G2. This
includes taking design risks like placing the power and volume buttons on the
back of the device, and loading the phone with software designed to make
navigation and multitasking easier. The G2 is also packed with some of the
latest technology, such as a high-definition display and powerful processor.
During my week of testing, I found the G2 to be a solid Android phone. The
screen is beautiful, performance is smooth, and the battery life is good.
Unfortunately, some of the design decisions and software additions end up
hurting the device rather than helping it. As a result, I’d recommend getting
the HTC One or Samsung Galaxy S 4, both of which offer better designs and a
more polished experience. At first glance, the G2 looks like any other
smartphone, sporting an all-black design (it also comes in white) and rounded
corners. With a 5.2-inch touchscreen, the handset is on the larger side,
measuring 5.45 inches tall by 2.79 inches wide by .35-inch thick. But I could
still wrap my hand around it and slip it into the back pocket of my jeans. I
just wish the back cover had some kind of texture to it, since the plastic is
slippery. I much prefer the aluminum finish of the HTC One. While the G2 might
not look like much from the front, the back tells a different story. LG said
it moved the power and volume buttons to the rear, just below the camera, for
aesthetics and to make it more convenient for people to access these buttons
on larger devices. But it drove me crazy. Using the volume buttons only felt
natural when I was on a phone call, since I could easily access them with my
index finger. Even then, it was hard to distinguish which buttons were which
just by feel, especially on the Verizon model, which has smaller keys than the
AT&T; version. If I had to adjust the audio any other time — for example, when
listening to music or watching a video — it was awkward to have to reach
around the back to do so. And the same was true every time I needed to turn on
the phone. Luckily, LG gives you an alternative way to wake the G2 from
standby mode. A feature called KnockOn allows you to double-tap on the display
to bring up the lock screen. When you’re done, you can use the same action to
turn the phone off. It worked pretty well in my tests, but there were a couple
of times when the screen didn’t register my initial taps. The G2 ships running
Android 4.2.2, which isn’t the latest version of Google’s mobile operating
system, but is still just fine. The smartphone offers a couple of different
features for multitasking, but neither is a great solution. One function
called QSlide Apps lets you work in two apps at once. The list of supported
apps, which includes basics like calendar and email, is accessible from the
notifications screen, and you can rearrange and resize the app windows. But I
found that this feature really clutters the screen. Samsung’s multi-window
feature is much neater, as it splits the screen in half so you can work in two
apps. Another function, called Slide Aside, allows you to keep three apps
running at the same time. You can push an app aside for use later by swiping
to the left with three fingers. To make it active again, you just swipe to the
right and select your desired app. But the swiping gesture isn’t very
comfortable, and it was also problematic when using it with Gmail, as I ended
up accidentally archiving messages while trying to push it to the side. It’s
easier just to hold down the Home button and switch between your active tasks
that way. While the software features might not be up to snuff, the G2’s
hardware and performance shine. The 1,920 by 1,080-pixel touchscreen is
vibrant and sharp, making it great for watching videos and reading text. The
phone’s 13-megapixel camera also took good photos, even in low light. Using
Qualcomm’s latest Snapdragon processor, the G2 delivered zippy performance.
Apps launched with little delay, and even when playing graphics-intensive
games like Max Payne, the phone was able to keep up with no problem. I enjoyed
clear-sounding voice calls and fast data speeds as I used the phone around San
Francisco. Friends’ voices sounded natural, and there wasn’t any disruptive
background noise. Using Verizon’s 4G LTE network, I averaged download speeds
of 10.96 megabits per second, and upload speeds of 8.32Mbps. Battery life was
solid with moderate use. Most days, I used it to check email and social
networks, read some Web articles and watch a couple of YouTube clips, and the
G2 was able to last a little over a day. But, when used heavily, including
streaming TV shows from Netflix (I’m woefully behind on “Breaking Bad”), the
phone needed recharging by the end of the day. The G2 is a very capable
Android phone — it’s LG’s best effort to date. Unfortunately, the design
issues and clunky software prevent it from beating out the competition. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130919/lg-g2-a-solid-performer-held-back-by-design-
software-flaws/feed/ 0 Nvidia Looks to Gain Ground in Mobile With $199 Tegra
Note, Its Own Entry in Crowded Tablet Market
http://allthingsd.com/20130918/nvidia-looks-to-gain-ground-in-mobile-
with-199-tegra-note-its-own-entry-in-crowded-tablet-market/
http://allthingsd.com/20130918/nvidia-looks-to-gain-ground-in-mobile-
with-199-tegra-note-its-own-entry-in-crowded-tablet-market/#comments Wed, 18
Sep 2013 17:04:34 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=359243 Aiming to boost its
presence in mobile devices, Nvidia on Wednesday announced the Tegra Note, a
homegrown seven-inch tablet. The device, expected to sell for $199, packs
stylus support, front and rear cameras, 16 gigabytes of storage and, of
course, a Tegra 4 processor. Although Nvidia has done all the work on Tegra
Note, it will be localized and sold by various partners over the next few
months. Those partners include Evga and PNY Technologies in North America,
Xolo in India, and a variety of others in Europe and Asia. “It’s a complete
tablet platform, designed by Nvidia and brought to market by our partners,”
Nvidia said in a blog post. “It embodies the NVIDIA brand — from our hardware
and software (right down to OTA updates), to our industrial design,
accessories and network of partners in game development.” Qualcomm, Intel and
other chipmakers often build nearly-market-ready reference designs using their
chips. Intel, for example, has a reference-design phone that it managed to get
adopted by a handful of device makers and carriers. Nvidia itself did a
reference-design Android tablet using its Tegra 3 chip — a design that largely
became the original Nexus 7 from Google. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130918/nvidia-looks-to-gain-ground-in-mobile-
with-199-tegra-note-its-own-entry-in-crowded-tablet-market/feed/ 0