WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Arik Hesseldahl ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @ahess247
Recent Posts by Arik Hesseldahl That Yahoo Mail Vulnerability? Not Really
Fixed. January 10, 2013 at 3:03 pm PT Tweet Share Print The vulnerability in
Yahoo Mail that has been blamed for a surge in spam emanating from compromised
accounts wasn’t really fixed, or at least not entirely. That’s the claim from
Offensive Security, a security research and training firm. In a blog post
yesterday, the firm demonstrated how Yahoo Mail is still vulnerable to cross-
site scripting, or XSS, attacks. You can see the latest demonstration in the
video below. Remember that the vulnerability initially disclosed by Shahin
Ramezany, a researcher at Abysssec, a small independent security firm, was
also of the XSS variety. It involved sending a link to a Yahoo mail user, who
then presumably takes the bait and clicks the link, which has the effect of
mining enough information about their account credentials that the attacker
can later take over the target’s account. Yahoo said it fixed this
vulnerability later on the night of Jan. 7. But now Offensive Security is
claiming that Yahoo may have fixed the immediate problem, but not the more
fundamental underlying problem that allowed it in the first place. “In this
case, Yahoo has been provided the proof-of-concept by Shahin. They thought
they had it corrected and went around releasing statements to that fact,”
Offensive’s Jim O’Gorman told me by email. “However, and this is actually
common, they corrected the specific method of exploitation that was used in
the initial proof-of-concept, but did not correct the underlying flaw. Because
of this, it’s possible to bypass Yahoo’s new protections with only some slight
modifications.” While he didn’t go into a lot of technical detail, he likened
it to killing a couple of roaches, but not addressing the underlying
environmental conditions that allow roaches to thrive in the first place. And
as I noted on Monday, this isn’t Yahoo’s first experience with XSS
vulnerabilities. The Shahin video looked an awful lot like another XSS
vulnerability about which Yahoo was told in November. Yahoo has since insisted
they are not one and the same, but they certainly aren’t very different,
either. I’ve asked Yahoo for a comment on Offensive’s claims, but haven’t
heard back yet. Anyway, here’s Offensive’s demonstration, complete with some
head-pounding techno. Tagged with: hackers, hacking, Mail, Offensive Security,
security, vulnerabilities, Yahoo, Yahoo Mail Apple Denies Working with NSA on
iPhone Backdoor December 31, 2013 at 8:49 am PT You Won’t Believe All the
Crazy Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying December 30, 2013 at 12:15 pm PT HP Is
Negotiating to Settle Bribery Charges December 30, 2013 at 8:45 am PT CIOs
Brand Enterprise Social Tools as Most Overhyped Technology of the Year
December 30, 2013 at 3:39 am PT Malware Attacks by Syrian Pro-Government
Hackers Are on the Rise December 27, 2013 at 1:27 pm PT Latest Video View all
videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128
Search » Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say Goodbye and We Say Hello Walt
Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and the Corrosion of Silicon Valley
Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe All the Crazy Hardware the NSA
Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View all today’s news » Uncovering a
More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews Lenovo’s Bendy
Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren Goode in Product Reviews Space
Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup Katherine
Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data Beamed to Your Phone Walt
Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A Solid Windows Tablet in
Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all reviews » I’m a giant vat
of creative juices.— David Pogue on why he’s joining Yahoo AllThingsD by
Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and
opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other
sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different
topics, different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us »
Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms
of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily
Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential
figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All
Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on
Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version