AllThingsD » The Onion http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 QOTD: Nonsense
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/qotd-nonsense/
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/qotd-nonsense/#comments Wed, 30 Oct 2013
06:59:14 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=369233 Right now, The Onion doesn’t
make a lot of sense. They have to rethink what they’re doing because nobody —
especially the younger audience — knows the structure of how news articles are
written because they don’t read newspapers. — Tim Keck, co-founder of The
Onion and founder of The Stranger, speaking at the Seattle Interactive
Conference Monday morning ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131029/qotd-
nonsense/feed/ 0 Upworthy Raises $8 Million for Clickbait With a Mission
http://allthingsd.com/20130916/upworthy-raises-8-million-more-for-clickbait-
with-a-mission/ http://allthingsd.com/20130916/upworthy-raises-8-million-more-
for-clickbait-with-a-mission/#comments Mon, 16 Sep 2013 11:00:00 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=358332 Can you build a successful website by
repackaging work done by other people? Of course you can! What about building
a successful website by repackaging other people’s work, in service of a
“mission-driven” agenda? Yup, you can do that, too. Upworthy, which didn’t
exist 18 months ago, now claims more than 22 million visitors a month, all
drawn in by stuff that the site didn’t make itself. What Upworthy does do is
attach a new headline to the story, or video, which it tests against dozens of
other headlines it tries out for maximum clickability and shareability. Then
it sends its stuff through social networks, primarily Facebook. Boom: Near-
instant success. That kind of traffic story would get anyone noticed, but
Upworthy gets a bit of extra attention because of its heritage. It is co-
founded by Eli Pariser, the former managing director of MoveOn.org, and Peter
Koechley, the former managing editor of The Onion. And it was initially backed
by bold-faced angels including New Republic owner Chris Hughes and Reddit co-
founder Alexis Ohanian. Upworthy also gets more attention because the for-
profit company has an agenda — it wants to raise awareness about the things
Koechley and Parser think are important. For whatever reason, Pariser and
Koechley are uncomfortable describing themselves as liberals or progressives.
But if you look at the stuff they produce and promote, that sort of resolves
itself. Here, for instance, is the story the site was featuring on Sunday — a
YouTube clip of a George Carlin HBO special, highlighting a bit about the
Persian Gulf War, with this headline: “Why We Might Bomb Syria Is Explained
Perfectly By — A Dead Comedian?” In any case, the site’s political bent hasn’t
kept it from raising money. Last year, it raised $4 million in two seed
rounds; now it has raised $8 million in a round led by Spark Capital, the VC
firm currently basking in the glow of its early bets on Tumblr and Twitter.
Upworthy said it will spend that money on the tech and know-how that makes its
stuff so click-worthy. But unlike the Huffington Post and BuzzFeed, two other
sites that have parlayed clicks into original reporting budgets, Pariser and
Koechley sid they won’t be ordering up their own stories on Syria, gay
marriage or climate change. And, while lots of investors have asked, the
Upworthy guys said they have no intention of taking the traffic-making formula
they’ve already built and making it “extensible,” which means that the site
won’t be moving into sports coverage, or side-boob coverage. They also don’t
plan on licensing out their knowledge to other sites. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130916/upworthy-raises-8-million-more-for-clickbait-
with-a-mission/feed/ 0 Twitter Feed of Thomson Reuters Is Latest Victim of
Syrian Hackers http://allthingsd.com/20130729/thomsonreuters-twitter-feed-is-
latest-victim-of-syrian-hackers/
http://allthingsd.com/20130729/thomsonreuters-twitter-feed-is-latest-victim-
of-syrian-hackers/#comments Tue, 30 Jul 2013 00:17:19 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=347136 The Twitter feed of Thomson Reuters, the
global news and financial data company, appears to be the latest media victim
of hijacking by the Syrian Electronic Army. The Twitter account in question,
@ThomsonReuters, has been suspended in the last several minutes. The attack
appears to have taken place in the last hour. The attackers managed to tweet
links to at least seven images, mostly pro-Assad political cartoons. BuzzFeed
has captured all of them here, but they’re not exactly funny, so click
cautiously. The Syrian Electronic Army has been relatively quiet in recent
weeks. However, it was very active earlier this year, carrying out attacks
against the Twitter feeds of numerous media companies, including CBS and the
Guardian in April, and the Financial Times in May. It also attacked The Onion,
prompting a predictable but funny response from that satirical news site, and
later, an equally awesome disclosure of technical details on how the attack
was carried out. It has been a few months since the SEA has carried out an
attack of this nature. Twitter has been quietly working with media
organizations to help them secure their accounts, and has developed something
of a rapid-response protocol that allows companies hit with this kind of
attack to quickly and temporarily put their accounts on ice until control is
regained and, presumably, evidence is gathered to carry out an investigation.
The latest attack may indicate a new operational phase by the group, which
supports the government of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s 28-month-old
civil war. More than 100,000 people have died in the conflict since it began.
Here’s a screen grab of the tweets, which began at about 6:30 pm ET: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130729/thomsonreuters-twitter-feed-is-latest-victim-
of-syrian-hackers/feed/ 0 Area Man Can't Read Print Edition of Parody
Newspaper http://allthingsd.com/20130713/area-man-cant-read-print-edition-of-
parody-newspaper/ http://allthingsd.com/20130713/area-man-cant-read-print-
edition-of-parody-newspaper/#comments Sat, 13 Jul 2013 12:42:43 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=341704 “It’s sad to hear but of course it makes
sense. [The] Onion in print is a parody of daily newspapers and college
students don’t read daily newspapers anymore. — Onion co-founder Tim Keck,
responding to news that the paper he helped start when he was a student at the
University of Wisconsin will shut down its print edition in Madison, Wis. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130713/area-man-cant-read-print-edition-of-parody-
newspaper/feed/ 0 The Onion, Yahoo-Hulu and Android on Windows — 10 Things You
Need to See on AllThingsD This Week http://allthingsd.com/20130512/the-onion-
yahoo-hulu-and-android-on-windows-10-things-you-need-to-see-on-allthingsd-
this-week/ http://allthingsd.com/20130512/the-onion-yahoo-hulu-and-android-on-
windows-10-things-you-need-to-see-on-allthingsd-this-week/#comments Sun, 12
May 2013 16:18:01 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=320534 In case you missed
anything, here’s a quick weekend roundup of the news that powered AllThingsD
this week: Wondering just how much your new S4 costs? Market research firm IHS
pegs the cost of Samsung’s new flagship smartphone at just above $237 per
unit. It planned to do so originally, but Google will not roll out a physical
credit card later this month to bolster its “Google Wallet” commerce project.
Everyone who works in Web advertising seems to be talking about the same video
ad lately, and here it is: A three-minute-28-second mini-documentary from
McDonald’s Canada. The Onion is best known for its prowess at disseminating
false information. But it performed an “awesome” public service this week when
it explained in detail just how it got hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army.
Brace yourselves: Windows Blue is coming. Yes, Microsoft confirmed this week
that an update to the “no compromise” PC-mobile hybrid OS Windows 8 is on the
way. In other Microsoft-related news, BlueStacks’ software that lets you
emulate Android apps inside of Windows has been downloaded more than 10
million times. And it’s still in beta. Mobile videogames currently cater to
easily distracted players, but is there room for more thoughtful strategy
games? Firaxis Games’ Sid Meier (a.k.a. the Civilization guy) says yes. Two
new iPad apps claim that they can teach children programming skills directly
on the tablet. But can they? Lauren Goode puts Hopscotch and Kodable to the
test. It hasn’t made a formal bid, but Yahoo has joined the gang of companies
meeting with wanna-sell execs at Hulu. Social video startup Viddy is returning
most of its Series B round to investors and moving people in and out of its
board. To stay on top of the latest, follow AllThingsD on Twitter and
Facebook, and subscribe to our daily email newsletter. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130512/the-onion-yahoo-hulu-and-android-on-
windows-10-things-you-need-to-see-on-allthingsd-this-week/feed/ 0 Why The
Onion Is Awesome for Publishing Details of Its Twitter Hack
http://allthingsd.com/20130510/why-the-onion-is-awesome-for-publishing-
details-of-its-twitter-hack/ http://allthingsd.com/20130510/why-the-onion-is-
awesome-for-publishing-details-of-its-twitter-hack/#comments Fri, 10 May 2013
12:59:07 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=320247 The Onion, the satirical news
site that saw its Twitter account hijacked by a Syrian hacker group earlier
this week, has just performed a pretty significant bit of public service. In a
detailed post, the site’s tech team has published a fairly thorough tick-tock
on how the attack was carried out. This is the opposite of what companies
usually do when they experience a security breach. The pro-Assad Syrian
Electronic Army has been attacking the Twitter accounts of many Western media
organizations in recent weeks, including CBS News, the BBC, Associated Press,
and others). None of those organizations have followed up with any significant
disclosure about what happened. When companies and organizations suffer a
computer breach of any kind, the impulse is to keep the details of how it was
carried out close to the vest. There are many legitimate reasons for this, not
the least of which is that it’s embarrassing. And the details can shed light
on internal processes and procedures that might be of value to competitors. In
addition, there’s a public relations consideration. Stories about hacking
attacks are negative. If there’s any media coverage, there’s an understandable
desire for the coverage to stop. Disclosures about how it happened yield
another round of coverage that would otherwise be unwanted. In cases like
this, the desire for no coverage wins out. As one media organization after
another has fallen for the Syrian Electronic Army’s tricks, there seemed to be
a common thread that ran through the circumstances of each incident. All
appear to have fallen prey to some kind of “phishing” attack. These are
spoofed emails that look legitimate but which contain attachments or links
that are used to gather information like usernames and passwords to carry out
the attack. What The Onion has disclosed is that the attackers in this case
used a sophisticated multilayered attack, using information gleaned in the
first round to then launch a second that gathers more information, and so on,
until at last they had penetrated the target: The Onion’s Twitter account,
with a healthy five million followers. This is by far the most detailed
account of any of these attacks that I’ve read. And the more people who read
it the better, because eventually the methods used will stop working. I’ve
long thought that there ought to be more transparency from private companies
in these matters, especially from media organizations that have a certain
amount of accountability to the public that they serve. When hackers thought
to be based in China attacked several media organizations, including The Wall
Street Journal (which, like this website, is owned by News Corp.) and the New
York Times, the apparent intent was to monitor communications about reporting
what those organizations were doing about Chinese officials and companies. In
the case of the Syrian Electronic Army, the intent was to take advantage of
the Twitter followers these organizations have attracted and hijack their
accounts to spread political propaganda. The attacks do some short-term damage
to reputations and result in some embarrassing press coverage for a day or so.
Usually, no one ever learns anything useful, because the details remain
obscured. Yesterday, The Onion changed that. It’s an example we can all learn
from. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130510/why-the-onion-is-awesome-for-
publishing-details-of-its-twitter-hack/feed/ 0 Syrian Hackers Turn Tables,
Hack The Onion's Twitter Account http://allthingsd.com/20130506/syrian-
hackers-turn-tables-hack-the-onions-twitter-account/
http://allthingsd.com/20130506/syrian-hackers-turn-tables-hack-the-onions-
twitter-account/#comments Mon, 06 May 2013 23:06:27 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=318849 The Syrian Electronic Army, the pro-Assad
propaganda group known for attacking Twitter accounts operated by numerous
Western media outlets including National Public Radio, the BBC, CBS, the
Associated Press and numerous others, has notched another paragon of
journalistic virtue on its belt: The Onion. The satire news site, known best
for occasionally confusing other media organizations and public people who
aren’t in on the joke, has, in a sinister way, been subjected to a taste of
its own medicine. “UN retracts report of Syrian chemical weapon use: Lab tests
confirm it is Jihadi body odor,” one message said, according to a report by
the New York Times. The attack appears to have been in response to an only
partially satirical Onion essay, written by a fake Bashar al-Assad, that
carried the headline, “Hi, In The Past 2 Years, You Have Allowed Me To Kill
70,000 People.” Following the tried-and-true rule of not letting a heckler
have the last word, The Onion responded with a story about the attack.
Datelined from the Syrian capital of Damascus, it opens: “After hacking into
The Onion’s Twitter account earlier today, members of the Syrian Electronic
Army confirmed that the organization simply wanted to have a little fun before
soon dying at the hands of rebel forces.” Briefly suspended, The Onion’s
Twitter account is back online. Its first few tweets: Security tips,
naturally. The Onion’s Tips On How To Prevent Your Major Media Site From Being
Hacked http://t.co/Q3wftX8yAc May 6, 2013 12:35 pm via webReplyRetweetFavorite
@TheOnion The Onion Move site to a new web address every few minutes
http://t.co/Eek3OIqDBW #HackPreventionTips May 6, 2013 12:38 pm via
webReplyRetweetFavorite @TheOnion The Onion Onion Twitter Password Changed To
OnionMan77 | ‘That Ought To Do It,’ Company Sources Confirm
http://t.co/iYrV4JQxYJ May 6, 2013 11:42 am via webReplyRetweetFavorite
@TheOnion The Onion Install a shit-ton of firewalls http://t.co/Eek3OIqDBW
#HackPreventionTips May 6, 2013 12:45 pm via webReplyRetweetFavorite @TheOnion
The Onion What’s not funny is what’s going on in Syria right now. Over the
weekend, a rocket attack widely believed to have been carried out by Israel’s
air force caused some huge explosions in the real Damascus. (See the video
below, via Reuters.) The attack targeted some weapons said to be destined for
the Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah. And of course it’s taking place
against the backdrop of the ongoing civil war against the Assad regime, in
which some 75,000 people are said to have died. That part is no joke. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130506/syrian-hackers-turn-tables-hack-the-onions-
twitter-account/feed/ 0 Sadly, This Is Not The Onion
http://allthingsd.com/20130225/sadly-this-is-not-the-onion/
http://allthingsd.com/20130225/sadly-this-is-not-the-onion/#comments Tue, 26
Feb 2013 07:59:21 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=298313 It’s not funny, cause
it’s true. — The tagline for Onion spoof site The On1on, which provides
headlines and links to real news stories, including a USA Today story entitled
“‘The Onion’ issues apology for tasteless Twitter remark” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130225/sadly-this-is-not-the-onion/feed/ 0 "Sponsor
Content" Doesn't Fool Anyone Except Advertisers
http://allthingsd.com/20130115/sponsor-content-doesnt-fool-anyone-except-
advertisers/ http://allthingsd.com/20130115/sponsor-content-doesnt-fool-
anyone-except-advertisers/#comments Tue, 15 Jan 2013 23:58:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=285839 I don’t get advertorials. I get “native ads.”
Those are ads that give Web publishers a chance to say they’re not selling
ads, because they’re selling stuff that people want to look at, at least
theoretically. I think that can work in some formats — especially with video.
But these things never seem to work when it comes to print, or print-like Web
publications. Not because they fool readers into thinking they’re reading
“real” content. But because they seem like lousy imitations of “real” content.
I can’t figure out why that is. Making “real” content, that readers would find
inherently interesting, is a specific skill, but not a rarefied one. For
whatever reason, though, these things just don’t work as ads, or as anything
else. That held true for magazines and newspapers in the olden days, and it
holds true now. For instance: Check out the “sponsor content” that the
Atlantic is still running, after apologizing for its Scientology blunder —
this stuff from IBM is unreadable. Ditto for Huffpo’s work for Prilosec (I
think? The URL seems to be the only hint on this one). Even the sharp minds at
BuzzFeed, blessed with a spooky ability to make click-worthy stuff, end up
falling flat when asked to create fake content for clients like the Nevada
Commission on Tourism. Still, I’m all for ad revenue, because it helps foot
the bill for typers like me. And we’re still in frontier times when it comes
to Web ad rules, so we’re going to see lots of experiments for a long time. So
here’s one easy ground rule for Web publishers and advertisers to keep in mind
as they draft their next advertorial campaign: If the fake article you’re
going to write can be easily, mercilessly parodied with a couple keystrokes
and some nifty Photoshop work, try something else. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130115/sponsor-content-doesnt-fool-anyone-except-
advertisers/feed/ 0 Amazon Looks for Its "Seinfeld," and Asks for Your Help
http://allthingsd.com/20121220/amazon-looks-for-its-seinfeld-and-asks-for-
your-help/ http://allthingsd.com/20121220/amazon-looks-for-its-seinfeld-and-
asks-for-your-help/#comments Thu, 20 Dec 2012 14:11:31 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=279564 Like Netflix, YouTube and Hulu, Amazon is
taking a stab at making its own Web video, starting with sitcoms and kids’
shows. Here’s the first foray from Jeff Bezos and company — an order for a
half-dozen sitcom pilots, some of which involve people you’ve heard of: Alpha
House, about “four senators who live together in a rented house in Washington
DC.” Written by Doonesbury creator Garry Trudeau, who also made the vastly
underappreciated “Tanner ’88” for HBO. Browsers, “a musical comedy set in
contemporary Manhattan that follows four young people as they start their
first jobs at a news website,” from former “The Daily Show” head writer David
Javerbaum. Dark Minions, an animated series “about two slackers just trying to
make a paycheck working an intergalactic warship,” from “Big Bang Theory” co-
stars Kevin Sussman and John Ross Bowie. The Onion Presents: The News, “set
behind the scenes of The Onion News Network.” Supanatural, an animated series
about “two outspoken divas who are humanity’s last line of defense against the
supernatural”; one of the producers is “The Daily Show” star Kristen Schaal.
Those Who Can’t, “about three juvenile, misfit teachers,” written by three
guys Amazon found via its open call for submissions. Word that Amazon was
betting on some of these has already been out in the trade press for awhile,
but today is the formal rollout. Will any of them work? Who knows! It’s just
like regular TV! (And, in fact, some of these shows got look-sees from regular
TV networks before falling into Amazon’s hands. But that’s standard practice
in Hollywood, where someone’s rejections become someone else’s hits. See, for
instance, “The Sopranos,” which Fox famously passed on before HBO picked it
up.) The twist here is that you, the Web video viewer, will get to have a say:
Amazon will post the produced pilots online, and “viewer feedback will help
determine” which ones actually get picked up. Much more fun than leaving it in
the hands of network types — and a very clever promotional gambit. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121220/amazon-looks-for-its-seinfeld-and-asks-for-
your-help/feed/ 0 Iran News Agency Apologizes for Taking The Onion Seriously
http://allthingsd.com/20120930/iran-news-agency-apologizes-for-taking-the-
onion-seriously/ http://allthingsd.com/20120930/iran-news-agency-apologizes-
for-taking-the-onion-seriously/#comments Sun, 30 Sep 2012 19:49:15 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=255558 Iran’s news agency can take some comfort in
the fact it isn’t the first to treat a story from The Onion as legitimate.
That said, the organization did look kind of silly crowing about a poll that
showed Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as more popular than Barack Obama
among rural Whites. The story was, in fact, pulled nearly verbatim from an
Onion piece. The Israeli embassy, in particular, had some fun at Iran’s
expense, suggesting it might want to go with the real Gallup when looking for
polling information. The Iranian news organization Fars apologized Sunday for
mistaking satire for fact, as noted by Al-Jazeera English. “We offer our
formal apologies for that mistake,” Fars said. However, it shot back that,
“although it does not justify our mistake, we do believe that if a free
opinion poll is conducted in the U.S., a majority of Americans would prefer
anyone outside the U.S. political system to President Barack Obama and
American statesmen.” The article then offers up a list of other news
organizations that have also mistaken an Onion piece for a factual one. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120930/iran-news-agency-apologizes-for-taking-the-
onion-seriously/feed/ 0 Introducing the BasmatiPhone
http://allthingsd.com/20120729/introducing-the-basmatiphone/
http://allthingsd.com/20120729/introducing-the-basmatiphone/#comments Mon, 30
Jul 2012 06:59:36 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=235239 “Whether it’s instant
rice, country-style rice, boil-in-a-bag rice, or smartphones, Uncle Ben’s has
always been committed to innovation.” — The Onion, in an article parodying the
crowded smartphone market ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20120729/introducing-the-
basmatiphone/feed/ 0 Viral With a Purpose? Upworthy Finds Serious Web Content
Worth Sharing. http://allthingsd.com/20120326/viral-with-a-purpose-upworthy-
finds-serious-web-content-worth-sharing/ http://allthingsd.com/20120326/viral-
with-a-purpose-upworthy-finds-serious-web-content-worth-sharing/#comments Mon,
26 Mar 2012 19:19:50 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=190109 Upworthy launched
today, a viral aggregator that promises to find interesting and shareable
content on important topics. That is, topics more important than your average
cat video or nip-slip slideshow. Upworthy’s output is a stream of curated
daily picks via email newsletter, Pinterest, Facebook and Twitter. Its first
two featured items are both about the Trayvon Martin killing. Upworthy was co-
founded by MoveOn board president Eli Pariser, and former managing editor for
The Onion, Peter Koechley. It is backed by Chris Hughes, the Facebook co-
founder who recently bought The New Republic. Pariser, who wrote the book “The
Filter Bubble,” explained his justification for Upworthy today: “In the
Darwinian environment of the hyper-relevant news feed, content about issues
like homelessness or climate change can’t compete with goofy viral videos,
celebrity news, and kittens … Hopefully, we can help bring attention and focus
to stuff that really matters in a viral format that can reach millions.” The
intersection of virality and more serious content seems particularly timely,
given the potency of Kony 2012 and other recent Internet activism, like the
SOPA protests. In an introductory post, Upworthy says it would like to run
items about “something like planking or Tebowing but about climate change” and
“17 Sexiest Pics About Income Inequality.” I guess it’s better to poke fun at
yourself before other people can. Hughes had previously pitched jobs at the
prelaunch start-up for people who “love Facebook, hate Fox News, and are
amazingly talented,” but as described today, the site says it’s not partisan.
Pariser said in an email today that the site is “very minimum viable product,”
but it already has a privacy policy in the form of an infographic, so I’d say
it’s ready for public consumption. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20120326/viral-
with-a-purpose-upworthy-finds-serious-web-content-worth-sharing/feed/ 0
Witnesses Reporting Backfire Heard From @theonion
http://allthingsd.com/20110930/witnesses-reporting-backfire-heard-from-
theonion/ http://allthingsd.com/20110930/witnesses-reporting-backfire-heard-
from-theonion/#comments Fri, 30 Sep 2011 20:17:47 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=127047 Humor online is a tricky thing, as any
misunderstood internet commenter can tell you. Part of what makes comedy work
are subtle cues and indicators of “play,” that we’re in on this humor thing
together. When the medium for that exchange is something as minimal as Twitter
(you’ve got 140 characters, and that’s all), strip those subtle cues out and —
well, stuff like this happens. Boing Boing partner Xeni Jardin, discussing an
“oddly presented” and largely misunderstood tweet from @theonion yesterday
morning reporting that screams and gunfire had been heard inside the Capitol
building ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110930/witnesses-reporting-backfire-
heard-from-theonion/feed/ 1 Aha! So This Is What You're Supposed to Do With
Color! http://allthingsd.com/20110325/aha-so-this-is-what-youre-supposed-to-
do-with-color/ http://allthingsd.com/20110325/aha-so-this-is-what-youre-
supposed-to-do-with-color/#comments Fri, 25 Mar 2011 21:13:27 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=31179 Liz Gannes–along with many other
people–has tried to explain what you’re supposed to do with Color, the photo-
sharing app that’s much more than a photo-sharing app but in a hard-to-explain
yet extremely well-funded way. But it didn’t really click for me until just
now, when I saw this tweet from Kevin Marks (via Eric Eldon). Now I get it.
Cool! ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110325/aha-so-this-is-what-youre-supposed-
to-do-with-color/feed/ 3 Facebook Actually a CIA Surveillance Program, Says
the Onion http://allthingsd.com/20110321/facebook-actually-a-cia-surveillance-
program-says-the-onion/ http://allthingsd.com/20110321/facebook-actually-a-
cia-surveillance-program-says-the-onion/#comments Mon, 21 Mar 2011 19:55:03
+0000 http://networkeffect.allthingsd.com/?p=4487 Facebook is a “massive
online surveillance program run by the CIA,” conceived as part of the Patriot
Act and so successful at information gathering that Congress recently
reauthorized its funding, reports the Onion News Network. By contrast, pundits
say the agency should cut funding for its Twitter initiative, with “400
billion tweets and not one useful bit of data was ever transmitted.”
Meanwhile, Foursquare was designed by Al Qaeda to identify potential bombing
locations, but most people wouldn’t miss its users if they were bombed. It’s
funnier when they say it: CIA’s ‘Facebook’ Program Dramatically Cut Agency’s
Costs Please see the disclosure about Facebook in my ethics statement. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110321/facebook-actually-a-cia-surveillance-program-
says-the-onion/feed/ 2 "Saturday Night Live" Knows Your Mom's on Facebook. So
Does The Onion! http://allthingsd.com/20101009/saturday-night-live-knows-your-
moms-on-facebook-so-does-the-onion/ http://allthingsd.com/20101009/saturday-
night-live-knows-your-moms-on-facebook-so-does-the-onion/#comments Sun, 10 Oct
2010 03:54:04 +0000 http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=24311 “Saturday Night
Live” just ran one of the cleverer bits it has put out in a long time: An ad
for a mythical product that helps Facebook users cope when their mothers sign
on. Good stuff. And it’s a guarantee that Facebookers are going to share this
thing, over and over, on the service itself. We can’t show you the sketch
(starring the awesome Jane Lynch) until Sunday morning, when NBC puts SNL up
online. (UPDATE: Here you go.) Until then, here’s the forerunner to the bit:
The Onion’s take on the same topic, from 2009: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20101009/saturday-night-live-knows-your-moms-on-
facebook-so-does-the-onion/feed/ 0 Viral Video: The Ad-Whispering Google Phone
http://allthingsd.com/20100518/viral-video-the-ad-whispering-google-phone/
http://allthingsd.com/20100518/viral-video-the-ad-whispering-google-
phone/#comments Tue, 18 May 2010 07:15:25 +0000
http://kara.allthingsd.com/?p=28452 You just know those big brains at Google’s
HQ in Mountain View, Calif., have already been at work on this spoof idea from
The Onion: A new mobile phone service that “whispers targeted ads directly
into users’ ears.” Here’s the hysterical video on how such an advertising-
blabby Google (GOOG) device might work, including a very funny emergency call.
And don’t miss the perfect dig at Yahoo (YHOO) at the end. Enjoy: New Google
Phone Service Whispers Targeted Ads Directly Into Users’ Ears ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100518/viral-video-the-ad-whispering-google-
phone/feed/ 1 The Last Word on Twitter Ads http://allthingsd.com/20100415/the-
last-word-on-twitter-ads/ http://allthingsd.com/20100415/the-last-word-on-
twitter-ads/#comments Thu, 15 Apr 2010 14:29:26 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=18637 Twitter has to please a lot of
constituencies with its new ads: Marketers, investors, third-party developers.
And, of course, regular folks. Fortunately The Onion has already talked to the
man and woman on the street. Full report here. Bonus video! The Onion explains
why your parents might want to use Facebook and Twitter: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100415/the-last-word-on-twitter-ads/feed/ 0 What Do
Rush and NPR Have in Common? Internet Talk Radio Hub Stitcher Nabs $6 Million
From Benchmark. http://allthingsd.com/20100406/what-do-rush-and-npr-have-in-
common-internet-talk-radio-hub-stitcher-nabs-6-million-from-benchmark/
http://allthingsd.com/20100406/what-do-rush-and-npr-have-in-common-internet-
talk-radio-hub-stitcher-nabs-6-million-from-benchmark/#comments Tue, 06 Apr
2010 11:30:25 +0000 http://kara.allthingsd.com/?p=26216 Online talk radio
aggregator Stitcher nabbed $6 million from Benchmark Capital and will use the
money to give radio blabbermouth Rush Limbaugh, as well as the endlessly
talking heads of National Public Radio, even more digital distribution. The
San Francisco-based start-up often describes itself as the the Pandora of
online talk radio. And like the digital music site, Stitcher lets its users
create and customize their own free personalized talk/information/news radio
stations. The site focuses mostly on its apps for a variety of mobile devices,
especially increasingly popular smartphones. It offers programs from about a
thousand different sources, such as NPR, E! and The Onion. Stitcher also
recommends new programs to users based on their selections. The infusion of
funding in a Series B round led by Benchmark–whose partner, Bob Kagle, will
have a seat Stitcher’s board–will allow it to expand its advertising sales
force and improve its offerings, said CEO Noah Shanok in an interview with
BoomTown last night. “The hope for everyone in terrestrial radio is to find
new audiences, so as we grow, they will too,” said Shanok, who co-founded
Stitcher in 2008. “We want to be a part of everyone’s everyday life.” Shanok
said fast-growing usage and engagement–which he declined to give specifics
about–was the reason Benchmark was attracted to the company. The new funding
adds to $3 million Stitcher already raised from New Atlantic Ventures and
investors Ed Scott and Ron Conway, who also participated in the new round.
While the mobile app on the Apple (AAPL) iPhone is the most popular, Stitcher
also offers software for Research in Motion (RIMM) BlackBerry, Palm (PALM) Pre
and Google (GOOG) Android devices. Stitcher is also pushing into other areas,
such as being part of Ford’s (F) initiative to make its SYNC-enabled vehicles
into Wi-Fi hotspots, allowing people to connect to the Internet everywhere
much more seamlessly in a moving car. They will be available later this year.
Here’s the press release on the funding: Stitcher Secures $6 Million in Series
B Venture Funding Benchmark Capital Leads New Round to Help Transform the Way
We Listen to Talk Radio SAN FRANCISCO, CA. (April 6, 2010)–Today, Stitcher, a
service that allows users to customize talk radio programming on their mobile
devices, announced that it has completed its Series B round of financing. Led
by Benchmark Capital, with participation from previous investor New Atlantic
Ventures and tech veterans including Ed Scott and Ron Conway, the funding will
be used to further Stitcher’s product and platform development. Bob Kagle of
Benchmark will join Stitcher’s board of directors. “We know that people prefer
listening to news, talk and information programming when they’re on-the-go.
The rise of smartphones has finally created an opportunity to give people
exactly what they want to hear–on their commute, at the gym, on a road-
trip–wherever and whenever they want it and that’s exactly what Stitcher
does,” said Noah Shanok, CEO of Stitcher. “Benchmark’s funding, combined with
Bob’s guidance, will help us continue to take advantage of the growing market
for mobile content distribution.” Stitcher’s free service allows users to
create a personalized audio programming experience. With Stitcher, users can
listen to the news and talk radio shows they enjoy whenever and wherever they
like, using their mobile devices. Users choose their favorite programs from
more than a thousand different sources, and Stitcher then delivers the audio
feeds to their phone as a single, regularly updating radio station. Stitcher
also helps users discover new content on a variety of topics–including
business, sports, politics, entertainment, and current events–by recommending
additional programs based on the shows users have in their feeds. A single
radio station can include programming as diverse as Fox Headline News, NPR’s
Fresh Air, TechCrunch Headlines, Onion Radio News, and E!’s Hollywood Rap Up.
“Stitcher is transforming the way we all consume news, talk radio, pod casts,”
said Bob Kagle, general partner at Benchmark Capital. “Noah and his team are
building a platform that will deliver the personalized experience consumers
currently enjoy for music to the broader world of audio programming. We’re
thrilled to join the Stitcher revolution.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100406/what-do-rush-and-npr-have-in-common-internet-
talk-radio-hub-stitcher-nabs-6-million-from-benchmark/feed/ 1 The Real Victims
of the Newspaper Collapse http://allthingsd.com/20100319/the-real-victims-of-
the-newspaper-collapse/ http://allthingsd.com/20100319/the-real-victims-of-
the-newspaper-collapse/#comments Fri, 19 Mar 2010 14:00:31 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=17622 The Onion is on to something here.
There’s something about big stacks of newspapers that appeals to a certain
kind of person–I used to work with one of them, and actually, come to think of
it, I kind of was one of them–and the creative destruction the Web has wrought
has no upside for those folks. You can’t build a wall around your cubicle
using Google News and Craigslist. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100319/the-real-
victims-of-the-newspaper-collapse/feed/ 0 Why the Future of Video Ads Looks a
Lot Like Ancient History http://allthingsd.com/20100316/why-the-future-of-
video-ads-looks-a-lot-like-ancient-history/
http://allthingsd.com/20100316/why-the-future-of-video-ads-looks-a-lot-like-
ancient-history/#comments Tue, 16 Mar 2010 20:02:16 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=17473 Video publishers are still monkeying
around with different ad formats. The latest, used by just about everyone
except Google’s YouTube (GOOG), is a menu that lets video watchers pick their
own ad before the video starts. But the easiest sell is the one where the
advertiser is integrated directly with the clip. That’s tough to do for many
reasons, and even when you can do it, it’s pretty hard to scale. But here’s
what it’s supposed to look like: Starbucks sponsoring a 25-song video series
put on by The Onion. Simon Dumenco has details on the campaign, but at its
core it’s the most basic kind of video advertising, and the kind we saw at the
beginning of video advertising. It’s a back-to-the-future version of TV’s
early days, when brands like Texaco and Ford (F) sponsored shows called
“Texaco Star Theater” and “The Ford Show.” Back to the present: Look at how
much plugging Starbucks (SBUX) has plugged in here! A preroll, plus what
amounts to a preroll at the beginning of the video, plus more Starbucks
references as the clip goes on. Don’t know what the coffee chain is paying for
sponsoring this stuff, but the company seems determined to get its money’s
worth. Ted Leo and the Pharmacists cover the Tears for Fears song, “Everybody
Wants to Rule the World”: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100316/why-the-future-
of-video-ads-looks-a-lot-like-ancient-history/feed/ 0 A Clicker To Watch TV
Online http://allthingsd.com/20091124/a-clicker-to-watch-tv-online/
http://allthingsd.com/20091124/a-clicker-to-watch-tv-online/#comments Wed, 25
Nov 2009 01:43:07 +0000 http://solution.allthingsd.com/?p=934 Finding TV shows
online can be a major hassle. If you can remember which network hosts the
show, you then must hunt through a maze of listings of several other
television shows on that network’s Web site to find it. The show you want to
watch might not even be available since many networks rotate only a handful of
recent episodes online at a time. And if you do finally find the correct
episode, you may be required to download a special media player to watch it.
Some services make this process a little easier. Hulu holds episodes from
1,200 television shows, but is still missing many. Apple’s (AAPL) iTunes Store
offers over 50,000 episodes, but unlike network sites or Hulu, it requires
viewers to pay to download and watch them (though they are commercial-free).
Video search engines like Truveo browse the entire Web, returning an often-
overwhelming number of results. And while YouTube is the king of Web video, it
can too easily return a search result that isn’t a complete and genuine
episode of the show you’re seeking. This week, I’ve been testing Clicker, a
free Web site that aims to be the TV Guide for all full episodes available to
watch on the Web. It searches over 1,200 sources, so it can index some 400,000
episodes from 7,000 shows. Results include television programs as well as “Web
originals,” or shows that are native to the Internet and are of broadcast
quality. Clicker either plays the video on its site or links you to where this
content is shown on another hosting site—like NBC or Hulu. If a show isn’t
available online, Clicker tells you so you don’t have to keep hunting all over
for it. I like Clicker and found it to be a quick resource for finding all
sorts of shows online. In many cases, it directed me to find the episodes I
wanted to watch and saved me the hassle of less efficient searching. It also
suggested shows I might like and offered a playlist where I could subscribe to
receive episodes as they became available or save available videos to watch
later. Clicker makes descriptive pages about each show Though it has a search
box, Clicker feels more like a directory than purely a robotic search engine
that relies mainly on algorithms. In fact, Clicker created a descriptive page
for almost every show, and these pages can be edited or created via user
submissions, which Clicker will review before posting them to the site. And
because it’s focused on TV shows or Web originals, it won’t clutter your
results with kids’ birthday parties or cats on skateboards. The site is still
rather new, so it has some kinks to work out—like links to videos that didn’t
actually play if, for example, they were pulled by the network. But these were
rare, and for the most part, if a video wasn’t available, a clear, brief
explanation was displayed at the top of the page. Also, if Clicker sends you
back out to a network’s site and that network uses a special player for
videos, you’ll still have to download that player. Filtering Results Clicker’s
program pages contain a description of the show, and a way to filter results
by season, airdate or popularity. And the site shows the actual airdate of
each video—something that not many other sites do. A column on the right side
of each page displays several related shows, like the suggestion of “Modern
Family” for fans of “How I Met Your Mother”; and “Roswell” and “Dead Like Me”
suggested for people who like “Heroes.” In December, these recommendations
will become even more personalized. Some of Clicker’s sources include NBC,
Fox, ABC, PBS, the Food Network and Web original content (i.e. “The Onion”).
It also can search movies and music videos; the movies can be watched free in
some cases, or paid for via Amazon’s (AMZN) Video on Demand or Netflix (NFLX)
Instant Streaming. In January, Clicker plans to incorporate shows and movies
from iTunes, using Apple’s pay-and-download method. Clicker is especially
handy when you’re looking for a show that isn’t where you think it should be.
“Seinfeld,” for example, is on TBS rather than NBC, where it originally aired,
and only nine episodes are available at once before they rotate out and are
replaced by nine more. “Friends” is found on theWB.com, rather than on NBC’s
site. “Damages” isn’t available on its network site, FX; instead, it can be
found at Crackle.com, another video-hosting site. It’s easy to understand why
people settle for missing an episode rather than trying to find a show online.
Clicker finds over 400,000 television and Web-original episodes so you can
search less and watch more. Clicker also comes in handy when you’re querying
something or someone you need to learn about. By typing in a term like
“Thanksgiving travel,” I get news results from NBC’s “Nightly News with Brian
Williams,” the “CBS Evening News” and the Associated Press. I also get tips
for traveling during this busy time of year from an AOL Travel online video,
as well as a 1968 episode of “The Beverly Hillbillies” called “The
Thanksgiving Spirit.” Clicker isn’t the site to use if you want to find the
hot video clip that everyone is watching. When I searched for “Whitney
Houston” the morning after the American Music Awards, the most recent video I
found was the singer performing on “Good Morning America” in September—not the
one showing her singing during the awards show the night before. But the fact
that Clicker can find Whitney Houston on “Good Morning America” is useful in
itself. A search for Warren Buffett’s most recent appearance on the “Charlie
Rose” show can be conducted in a similar manner—either by typing his name into
the box at the top of the page or by opening the show’s page and searching
within that show for anyone who has appeared as a guest. Performing a search
within a show like this anywhere else is nowhere near as easy as on Clicker.
Playlist of Your Shows Clicker can be used as a TiVo (TIVO) of sorts if you
create a username on the site or simply sign in using Facebook Connect, which
I did. Users can make playlists where they can add just one episode, all
episodes, or new episodes to this list—subscribing to receive all new episodes
in the playlist as they become available. I added episodes of “The Amazing
Race” and “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” to my playlist. This list can be
accessed anytime, and it’s helpful for people who don’t have enough time to
watch a show that they found. In December, email and Facebook notifications
will be added to tell users that new episodes are in their playlists. If you
spend a lot of time in front of your computer and find yourself searching all
over the Web for the TV shows you’d like to watch, Clicker will be a huge
help. And even if your show isn’t available, you might find something
similar—or better—in Clicker’s recommendations. Edited by Walter S. Mossberg.
Email mossbergsolution@wsj.com ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20091124/a-clicker-
to-watch-tv-online/feed/ 0 Weekend Update, 4.04.09
http://allthingsd.com/20090404/weekend-update-40409/
http://allthingsd.com/20090404/weekend-update-40409/#comments Sat, 04 Apr 2009
19:36:24 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=16055 Welcome once more
to Weekend Update! I’ll be filling in today for your regular host, Beth
Callaghan, who’s on vacation. And what sane person wouldn’t be, after the slew
of Silicon Valley silliness inspired by April Fools Day this past week?
Digital pranks were the name of the game as Google (GOOG) and others heaped so
many tepid hoaxes upon us that we wanted to call April Fold so as to quickly
end this round of gags. But no bag of tricks was needed for one Web site to
April Fool itself into crying wolf about an imminent Google (GOOG) acquisition
of Twitter, when a real story around the corner was aboutGoogle turning Turbo
Tax tweets into ads. Meanwhile, one of the biggest jokesters of them all, The
Onion, won one of the biggest awards in journalism, a Peabody, meaning that
the best sense of humor goes to that panel of judges. And to Stephen Colbert,
who was willing to entertain (for a while) Twitter spokesmodel Biz Stone’s
biz-model-less thoughts in an interview on “The Colbert Report.” Also on
BoomTown this week: Facebook’s former CFO Gideon Yu is out, as was a leaked
memo from Mark Zuckerberg about Yu’s departure and the company’s situation. A
sense of humor is certainly an invaluable feather to have in your cap these
days. Digital Daily wrote about the most recent doom-and-gloom predictions and
events to happen in this econalypse, like analysts’ predictions of YouTube
losing $470 million in 2009, the barren IPO-less wasteland VCs are bemoaning
and a major global slump in semiconductor sales. Other headlines weren’t quite
so dreary: Google’s foray into VC land, the folks at BlackBerry HQ celebrating
surprisingly good fourth-quarter results and the world’s worst-kept secret,
the anticipated merger between IBM (IBM) and Sun (JAVA). There was a similar
mix of dark clouds and silver linings over at MediaMemo. The National
Collegiate Athletics Association forced Twitter and partners AT&T; (T) and
Federated Media to take down one of its first ad campaigns, “March Tweetness,”
crying copyright foul. Also running afoul with big companies in legal waters,
free music Web site Seeqpod filed for bankruptcy. And video site Veoh laid off
a significant amount of staff and kicked out its old CEO, replacing him with
founder Dmitry Shapiro and refocusing the company on its “Video Compass”
browser plug-in. Online video is generally a turbulent space these, but the
waiting is the hardest part for Hulu when it comes to the rumored Disney deal
in which Disney (DIS) seems to be playing the field. Other gems of the week
were URL-shrinking Web service bit.ly’s raising of $2 million and media mogul
Rupert Murdoch’s Kindle envy. In a new Mossblog, Walt Mossberg gives us his
first impressions of the BlackBerry App World store in which Research in
Motion (RIMM) takes a bold step into what was formerly the sole domain of
Apple (AAPL). In Personal Technology, Walt reviews a network hard drive from
Western Digital (WDC) that makes the technology gloriously simple for
everyone. And in Mossberg Solution, Katherine Boehret takes a look at several
laptop trays, designed to protect the–ahem–family jewels and family members in
general from laptops’ scorching undersides. Finally, our exciting Woz-watch,
after many weeks, has come to a sad end: Steve Wozniak was voted off “Dancing
with the Stars” this week after one misstep too many. Down, but not out, the
Apple co-founder swore that the “geeks shall inherit the earth”… just not the
dance floor, any time soon. Please. More next week. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090404/weekend-update-40409/feed/ 0 No Joke: The Onion
Wins One of Journalism's Biggest Awards http://allthingsd.com/20090401/no-
joke-the-onion-wins-one-of-journalisms-biggest-awards/
http://allthingsd.com/20090401/no-joke-the-onion-wins-one-of-journalisms-
biggest-awards/#comments Wed, 01 Apr 2009 22:38:55 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=5875 It’s not layoff news, and it’s not an
April Fools prank: The Onion has won a Peabody, one of journalism’s most
highfalutin awards. The Peabodys, administered out of the University of
Georgia, date back to 1941, and honor “the most outstanding achievements in
electronic media, including radio, television and cable.” They tend to go to
earnest television documentaries and the like, but they also allow for some
very smart, quirky stuff. Hence the award for the weekly’s “Onion News
Network” video site, which debuted two years ago but has really been hitting
its stride lately (disclosure: I’m pals with some Onion people). Per the
judges: “The satirical tabloid’s online send-up of 24-hour cable-TV news was
hilarious, trenchant and not infrequently hard to distinguish from the real
thing.” Other winners include the New York Times’s (NYT) excellent Web site,
CBS’s (CBS) “60 Minutes” and… “Lost,” from Disney’s (DIS) ABC. But none of
those are as fun to embed as Onion clips. Here’s the Onion’s most recent
effort: Morning Show Host Starts Charity to Rid World of Flying Debris And
here’s a beauty that, like some other Onion stories, got digested as bonafide
news in some places: Prague’s Franz Kafka International Named World’s Most
Alienating Airport And while this one isn’t technically an Onion clip, I’ve
always enjoyed its many meta qualities: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20090401/no-
joke-the-onion-wins-one-of-journalisms-biggest-awards/feed/ 0