Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us PRODUCTS &
SERVICES Revealing the breadth & depth of the immune repertoire with accurate,
quantitative immunosequencing Order now Assays Analyzer Case studies
Technology Young Investigators Award Resources & Support Request a quote
IMMUNOSEQ Explore the Immune Repertoire Get answers to basic science, disease,
and translational research questions relating to the adaptive immune system,
monitor response to therapies, and discover new prognostic and diagnostic
biomarkers. Repertoire Properties Repertoire Dynamics Clone Tracking IMMUNOSEQ
Assays Unmask the identity of millions of T- and B-cell receptors in a single
sample using bias-controlled multiplex PCR amplification, high-throughput
sequencing and sophisticated bioinformatics. Learn more IMMUNOSEQ Analyzer Get
from data to discovery quickly and easily thanks to a powerful suite of easy-
to-use analytic tools included with the immunoSEQ Service and Kit. Try the
demo immuneACCESS Get access to the world’s largest open-access database of T-
and B-cell receptor sequences. Learn more Case studies See how researchers
around the world are using the immunoSEQ Assay to drive discoveries. Learn
more Technology Understand how we designed our groundbreaking science to
provide world-class accuracy and quantification. Learn more Young
Investigators Meet the next round of talented investigators helping to write
the future of immune-driven medicine. Learn more Resources & Support Find
answers to immunoSEQ FAQs and links to commonly requested materials. Learn
more immunoSEQ Assays are for Research Use Only. Not for use in diagnostic
procedures. Ready to order? Our sales team is ready to help. Request a quote
Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888) 522-8988 Immune Profiling
PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products & ServicesLIFE SCIENCES
RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ® Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY
Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular Therapy Antigen Map
Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur Story Culture
Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All Rights
Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy HIPAA
Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses