WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Walter S. Mossberg and Katherine Boehret ethics statement bio e-mail
RSS Follow @kabster728 The Digital Solution Putting the New Xbox Through Its
Paces November 23, 2005 at 11:59 pm PT Tweet Share Print See More Reviews »
The most interesting, and most anticipated, computer for the 2005 holiday
season isn’t often thought of as a computer at all, and it isn’t made by a
computer-hardware company. It’s the Xbox 360 game machine, and it’s made by
the world’s biggest software company, Microsoft. This second edition of the
Xbox, which went on sale yesterday, is both more capable and more refined than
the original model. In fact, the Xbox 360 is the most powerful computer ever
sold specifically for gaming. The $399.99 Xbox 360 from Microsoft Not only
that, but the Xbox 360 is meant to be a multimedia hub. Like earlier game
consoles, it can play CDs and DVDs. Like the original Xbox, the new model can
connect to the Internet to allow multiplayer gaming with people all over the
world. But it also can play music, video clips and photos from its own hard
disk or from the hard disk of another computer over a network, or stream music
from an Apple iPod plugged into one of its ports. We’ve been testing the Xbox
360, with the help of a veteran gamer, and our verdict is that its fluid,
movielike graphics make it an outstanding game machine. It also performed like
a champ as a multimedia hub. But the Xbox 360 has some significant downsides
that may cause casual gamers to hesitate to buy it right out of the chute.
Chief among these are price and backward compatibility with games produced for
the first Xbox. There are two versions of the new machine: the $300 Xbox 360
“Core System,” or a better $400 version, simply called the Xbox 360. The
trouble is that the $300 base system can’t play older games designed for the
original Xbox. Only the $400 model can do so, because it includes the hard
disk that’s needed to hold the special software that allows older games to run
on the new design. So, if you don’t want to lose your large investment in
older games, you’ll have to shell out a whopping $400 for the Xbox 360. That’s
more than double the recent price for an original Xbox or the rival Sony
PlayStation 2. For the extra hundred bucks, you also get some other stuff, in
addition to the detachable 20-gigabyte hard drive — a wireless controller,
instead of a wired one; a headset; a remote control for playing media; and
some cables. A scene from Kameo Elements of Power. Acquiring a library of new
Xbox 360 games will cost you $50 to $60 a game. We tested the Xbox both as a
game machine and as a multimedia hub. Since neither of us is much of a game
player, we enlisted the help of an avid videogame fan, Joe Carden, a 32-year-
old public-relations consultant for the federal government. Joe was really
excited about the new gaming device. Within an hour of starting to play on our
test machine, he declared that he was ready to plunk down the cash for an Xbox
360 of his own. Setting up this new Xbox was relatively simple. Three plugs
hook into its rear panel: the power cord, AV cord and Ethernet networking
cable. You may need to build an addition onto your house, however, for the
monstrous electrical adapter, which is the largest we’ve ever seen. We tested
the Xbox with Wi-Fi Internet networks, so the $100 Wireless Network Adapter
that Microsoft provided for our tests came in handy. We plugged this small
adapter into the back of the Xbox, and in a matter of moments it was glowing
green to indicate that the 360 had automatically detected our network and was
capable of working online. The 360 can stand vertically, like a sleek mini
computer tower, or it can be used horizontally. Its front panel can be changed
out for a more stylish faceplate — each costs $19. We walked through a few
registration steps, including setting up a “gamertag,” or nickname, and
choosing the best description of our playing style from four environments —
family-friendly, recreational, pro and underground. Cars line up in Project
Gotham Racing 3, a new Xbox 360 game. The cheaper version of the new machine
can’t play older games. To play online, you need an Xbox Live account. A so-
called Silver account comes free with the most expensive console, but this
only allows users to interact online with audio and voice messages, not to
actually play games with others online. An Xbox Live Gold account that
includes the Silver features as well as online game tournaments can cost as
much as $50 annually. Joe got started with Call of Duty 2, a game that throws
you into intense battles of World War II, starting in Moscow. He used buttons
on the wireless controller to battle through the war zone with other soldiers,
shooting at the enemy, throwing smoke grenades and planting explosives before
standing back to watch an enemy building explode. Bursts of flame lit the
screen, and bricks crumbled to the ground, causing dust to rise all around the
collapsed building. Joe noted that “the graphics are ridiculously much better”
than in older Xbox and Sony consoles, and, as if to demonstrate his
observation, a column of tanks, their armored sides rife with detailed dents,
thundered over the snowy trench in which his soldier was ducking from the
enemy. Fluffy pieces of realistic-looking snow were softly blowing all around
the scene. Soldiers hide in doorways and duck to avoid enemy fire in Call of
Duty 2, a game that focuses on battles from World War II. Joe also thought the
fight scenes were more graphic and the enemies more intelligent. He echoed
these sentiments while playing a game of Quake 4, where an army takes on
enemies in space. Joe tested online gaming by competing with a Microsoft
employee nicknamed “Bear” in Project Gotham Racing 3. This driving game takes
you through one of five cities, including London, New York and Las Vegas at
night, and the streets pass by landmarks that we recognized instantly. As Joe
and Bear raced through the streets, they used headsets to trash-talk one
another. Later, at the office, we played Call of Duty 2 and Project Gotham
Racing 3, and even though we’re not the best gamers in the world, the graphics
were so good we were hooked. We had a great time crashing our cars into
barriers on the streets around the Parliament buildings in London. As each car
slammed into the barriers, crowds of animated onlookers shrank back in fear.
We also tested the Xbox 360’s media capabilities. We set it up as a “Media
Center Extender” — Microsoft’s term for a device that can play back content
stored on a Media Center PC, even if it’s in another room. It worked great,
allowing us to play back music, photos and videos stored on a Dell PC. But if
you don’t have Windows Media Center running on your PC, this extender
functionality won’t work. We also played the same types of media directly off
the Xbox 360’s hard drive and used two of the device’s three USB ports to
attach an iPod and a portable USB drive loaded with photos. Music played
easily on the Xbox, through the television speakers, and the photos were
displayed quickly on our TV. Songs and playlists from the iPod showed up on
the menus as if they were stored on the Xbox itself. The DVD functionality
worked without a hitch, too, when we watched a few scenes of Jodie Foster in
the movie “Panic Room.” There’s little doubt that the Xbox 360’s gaming
capabilities will be the biggest draw for most users. But, for some casual
gamers, buying the new Xbox right away could be a mistake. For one thing, it
will likely take time for the best games to emerge, because game publishers
will learn more and more in coming months about how to take better advantage
of the hardware. And Microsoft’s rivals, Sony and Nintendo, have new game
machines coming out next year, which some folks will want to compare with the
new Xbox before shelling out hundreds of dollars. Still, if gaming is a big
part of your life, and you can afford the $400 Xbox, you won’t be
disappointed. This is one terrific gaming computer, and a media powerhouse to
boot. Email: MossbergSolution@wsj.com Tagged with Microsoft, Wi-Fi, wireless,
XBox You’ve Come a Long Way, Silicon Valley December 17, 2013 at 3:47 pm PT
Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup December
10, 2013 at 3:15 pm PT Oh, the Places Your Phone Will Find December 03, 2013
at 3:14 pm PT Xbox One: Digital Home Base for the Living Room November 26,
2013 at 3:25 pm PT An iPad That’s Mini in Screen Size Only November 19, 2013
at 3:06 pm PT Search the Mossberg Archives AllThingsD contains an archive of
columns by Walt Mossberg and Katherine Boehret from The Wall Street Journal
dating back to 2005. Latest Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
subsection&query;=Mossberg+Solution Search » Walt Mossberg’s Product Guides
Desktop PC’s and Laptops The Laptops to Buy Digital Cameras Digital Cameras
Improve Zooms, HD Function Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say Goodbye and
We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and the Corrosion
of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe All the Crazy
Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View all today’s news
» Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews
Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren Goode in Product
Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup
Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data Beamed to Your Phone
Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A Solid Windows Tablet
in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all reviews » AllThingsD by
Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and
opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other
sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different
topics, different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us »
Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms
of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily
Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential
figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All
Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on
Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version