News Macworld 2009: Live and in Living Color Published on January 6, 2009 by
John Paczkowski Despite its relatively tame product announcements and the
absence of Steve Jobs, Apple’s (AAPL) final Macworld keynote wasn’t without a
highpoint or two: changes in pricing and digital rights management for the
iTunes store, a new 17-inch MacBook Pro with an eight-hour battery life, and a
surprise appearance by crooner Tony Bennett, among them. Below: the event in
pictures, courtesy of ATD’s crack photojournalist, Adam Tow. Click any photo
to launch a slideshow. MacWorld 2009 Keynote Photos Phil Schiller signs off a
the MacWorld 2009 keynote by thanking Apple employees worldwide.Tony Bennett
at MacWorld 2009.Tony Bennett at MacWorld 2009.Tony Bennett gives the final
musical performance at the MacWorld 2009 keynote.Tony Bennett, as seen from
the jumbotrons at MacWorld 2009.Phil Schiller introduces Tony Bennett to the
stage at MacWorld 2009.Phil Schiller, VP of Worldwide Marketing for Apple,
gives the final Apple keynote at MacWorld.iTunes Music Store, now available
through 3G networks.All songs will be DRM-free by the end of next
quarter.2009-01-06_1026-34_6371What else does Apple have in store for
2009?iTunes remains #110,000,000 Songs available through the iTunes Music
Store.Environmental checklist for the new 17" MacBook Pro.A list of the key
features in the new 17" MacBook Pro.Phil in front of the MacBook and the 15"
MacBook ProPhil lists a series of quotes from journalists, including
AllThingsD.com's very own Walt Mossberg.Walt Mossberg's quote about the new
MacBook.17" MacBook ProPhil Schiller announcing the new 17" MacBook Pro.For
design professionals, there's a new Anti-Glare Option for the new 17" MacBook
Pro.Inviting others to work on an iWork document.The iWork.com documents look
just like iWork, but in a web
browser.2009-01-06_1008-55_63512009-01-06_1009-13_6352Pricing plans for iLife,
iWork, and Mac OS X Leopard.Mac Box Set, including iWork, iLife and Mac OS X
for $169.Phil introduces iWork.comiWork.com now in Beta.Phil takes over
keynote duties from Steve Jobs at MacWorld 2009.Phil runs through the new
features in Keynote 09.Keynote Remote for the iPhone lets you control Keynote
from the palm of your hand!It's available soon from the App Store for
$0.99.Phil Schiller standing in front of the Pages icon from iWork 09.You can
purchase lessons for $4.99 from within GarageBand 09.Artists such as Sting
will be giving lessons on how to play your favorite instruments.Phil talks
about the Learn to Play feature in GarageBand 09.Phil gives a demo of the new
Learn to Play feature in Garage Band 09.iMovie 09iMovie 09iPhoto 09 now
integrates with Facebook and Flickr. People can be tagged in Facebook and the
tag will be synced back to iPhoto.Phil gives a demo of the new Places feature
in iPhoto 09.Phil will be talking about three new things today at MacWorld
2009.Phil talks about the face detection and face tagging in iPhoto 09.Phil
Schiller takes the stage for the MacWorld 2009 keynote.The Apple Store in
BeijingPhil Schiller talks from the MacWorld 2009 stage.The Apple logo shines
brightly before the MacWorld 2009 Keynote. Return to: Macworld 2009: Live and
in Living Color URL: http://allthingsd.com/20090106/macworld-2009-live-and-in-
living-color/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow
Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.