Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Products &
Services Vaccines VACCINES Developing and monitoring vaccines To enable
vaccine development, the MIRA assay (Multiplexed Identification of T-cell
Receptor Antigen Specificity) is used to assess the immunogenicity of antigens
of interest in a particular disease to inform the design, mechanism of action,
and development of vaccines. A post-vaccination, patient-specific MIRA can
also be created to generate a signature of each patient’s response to the
Adaptive-informed vaccine. This signature can then be leveraged to identify
early biomarkers of response to the vaccine and monitor the response
longitudinally by simply using immunoSEQ on a small amount of a patient’s
peripheral blood. Optimizing Vaccine Design The MIRA assay can be used to
select the most immunogenic antigens for use in vaccine development, either
geared towards patients with a particular disease, or for personalized cancer
vaccines. Monitoring Vaccines MIRA can also be used to assess whether the
Adaptive-informed vaccine is generating a de novo T cell response. This can be
used to further optimize the vaccine and then to develop a signature to
measure efficacy using immunoSEQ. Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667
Diagnostics (888) 522-8988 Immune Profiling PlatformPlatform Overview
Publications Products & ServicesLIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ® Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy Vaccines
PartnershipsCancer Cellular Therapy Antigen Map Biopharma Partnerships
Strategic Collaborators About UsOur Story Culture Careers News & Events
Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use
Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct
Patents & Trademarks Licenses