AllThingsD » USA Today http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 SigFig Raises $15 Million From Union Square
Ventures and Bain Capital Ventures http://allthingsd.com/20130702/sigfig-
raises-15-million-from-union-square-ventures-and-bain-capital-ventures/
http://allthingsd.com/20130702/sigfig-raises-15-million-from-union-square-
ventures-and-bain-capital-ventures/#comments Tue, 02 Jul 2013 15:00:05 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=338488 Investment advice startup SigFig has raised a
$15 million Series B round led by Union Square Ventures and Bain Capital
Ventures, the company announced today. Prior investor DCM also participated.
SigFig users upload information about their investment portfolios to get
advice and recommendations about high fees and bad investments. The company
has also started to work with media companies such as CNN and USA Today on
partnerships that utilize its aggregate investment data. USV’s John Buttrick
will join the startup’s board. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130702/sigfig-
raises-15-million-from-union-square-ventures-and-bain-capital-ventures/feed/ 0
Keep Your Hands Off My Stack http://allthingsd.com/20130623/keep-your-hands-
off-my-stack/ http://allthingsd.com/20130623/keep-your-hands-off-my-
stack/#comments Mon, 24 Jun 2013 06:59:33 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=335978 We’ve heard Pandora complain it pays too much
in royalties to make a profit. (Of course, we also watched Pandora raise $235
million in its IPO and double its listeners in the last two years.) But a
business that exists to deliver music can’t really complain that its biggest
cost is music. — Roger Waters, David Gilmour and Nick Mason of Pink Floyd,
writing in USA Today about Pandora’s push to slash artists’ royalties by up to
85 percent ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130623/keep-your-hands-off-my-
stack/feed/ 0 Gannett Buying Belo in $2.2 Billion Deal
http://allthingsd.com/20130613/gannett-buying-belo-in-2-2-billion-deal/
http://allthingsd.com/20130613/gannett-buying-belo-in-2-2-billion-
deal/#comments Thu, 13 Jun 2013 11:58:54 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=331904
Gannett, best known as the newspaper publisher behind USA Today, is making a
big bet on TV: It is paying $1.5 billion, and taking on $715 million in debt,
to acquire local station owner Belo Corp. If the deal gets regulatory
approval, Gannett will nearly double its portfolio of TV stations from 23 to
43. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130613/gannett-buying-belo-in-2-2-billion-
deal/feed/ 0 Smile: People Like Your Picture More Than Your Words
http://allthingsd.com/20130322/smile-people-like-your-picture-more-than-your-
words/ http://allthingsd.com/20130322/smile-people-like-your-picture-more-
than-your-words/#comments Fri, 22 Mar 2013 21:41:34 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=306039 On March 7, Facebook announced a major
overhaul to its News Feed, the scrolling page of friend-news where we spend
the bulk of our Facebook time. The central change: Facebook is making room for
bigger pictures. It’s a logical move when you look at the data. In November
2011, one-fifth of posts uploaded to newsfeeds were photos. Today, every other
status update is a photo. My math friends tell me it that it’s hard to
meaningfully show percentage gains when you start with a really big number.
Even with my quantitative limitations, I have to believe Facebook qualifies.
Last year it told investors (as part of its IPO roadshow) that users were
uploading more than 300 million photos every single day, and from that very
large starting point photo activity just jumped 150 percent in 15 months. So
much for the law of large numbers. If you’re a brand, though, it’s not the
fact that photo-enabled devices will soon outnumber humans on the planet, or
that we’re piping all those pictures into social media. The important trend is
that consumers are looking at them. In other words, your art-directed fashion
spreads have a lot more competition these days. There was a time when
professional photography had a monopoly on our attention. When mass media
meant national magazines, TV networks and big-city newspapers, only deep-
pocketed corporations could afford access to large audiences. Back then it
made economic sense to build your story around professional-grade photography:
A single print ad would reach millions of readers, so a few tens of thousands
of dollars spent on art and photography chewed up only a negligible percentage
of a campaign’s costs. And for a few generations, this approach worked great.
It turns out, though, that cost-to-produce and magnitude-of-consumer-delight
don’t plot analogous curves in an Excel graph. In fact, it’s hard to find a
direct correlation between the two. A photo that captures something important
or interesting or timely wins our attention — regardless of who took it or how
much it cost to make. It also turns out the spans of our attention are
shrinking. Google economist Hal Varian observed as far back as 2010 — before
SnapChat, and back when we uploaded a mere 30 million photos to Facebook every
day — that we pay less attention to stuff when we consume it online. “The
average amount of time looking at online news is about 70 seconds, while the
average amount of time spent reading the physical newspaper is about 25
minutes a day.” So corporate storytellers need to master a new narrative
technique. It’s as if they need to shed those florid sentences that played so
well in Victorian novels and dial it down to the Hemingway-esque. The good
news: This new approach to storytelling still employs a language in which
brands are fluent: Photos. There are three ways that brands should modify
their visual storytelling. One, feeds move faster than print magazines, so you
need to tell your story in a series of frequent episodes, anecdotes and
updates — not the grand gestures of Ogilvy or Draper. Photos are the currency
of social media, but it’s a currency doled out in nickels, not twenty-dollar
bills. Two, let photos do more of the talking for you. Humans process visual
information much faster than we process text. And when we’re online (remember
those stats from Hal Varian), we navigate more quickly from story to story. If
you’re going to capture attention in a digital landscape, you have to do it
fast. So steal a page from the playbooks used by Pinterest, Flipboard, USA
Today’s new design or the NYT’s TimesCast: Use visual content instead of words
to invite consumers into the story. Three — need I say it? — let them interact
with your story, let them re-mix your assets and choose their own adventures.
Let them steal your photos so they can more easily share them with friends.
Let them explore inside your images to find links to products, deals and
related links. And let them contribute their own. If the Web conversation is
going visual, encourage them to talk to you in the local dialect — images
snapped on their phones looking for a place to be uploaded. Chas Edwards
joined Luminate, the worldwide leader in interactive images, in 2010 as chief
revenue officer and head of publisher development. Prior to Luminate, Chas
served as publisher and CRO at Digg, and before that he was the co-founder
(with John Battelle), publisher and chief revenue officer at Federated Media
Publishing (FM), a next-generation media and publishing company that develops
content marketing strategies for leading brand marketers. He blogs at
http://ChasNote.com and @chasnote. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130322/smile-
people-like-your-picture-more-than-your-words/feed/ 1 Day Two at D: Dive Into
Media 2013, in Pictures and Tweets http://allthingsd.com/20130213/day-two-at-
d-dive-into-media-2013-in-pictures-and-tweets/
http://allthingsd.com/20130213/day-two-at-d-dive-into-media-2013-in-pictures-
and-tweets/#comments Wed, 13 Feb 2013 11:30:45 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=294835 After Monday’s kickoff with Nancy Tellem,
Yusuf Mehdi, Anomaly Productions, David Eun and Charlie Ergen, D: Dive Into
Media 2013 already had plenty of star power and great moments in the bank.
Tuesday was a parade of still more great guests — 19 in all — and the
discussion online was vibrant. Here’s a sampling of what our attendees saw at
Day Two of #DMedia: You can also get the overview of the day’s events via
Storify. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130213/day-two-at-d-dive-into-
media-2013-in-pictures-and-tweets/feed/ 0 Old Media Is the New Hotness for
Chris Hughes and Larry Kramer http://allthingsd.com/20130212/old-media-is-the-
new-hotness-for-chris-hughes-and-larry-kramer/
http://allthingsd.com/20130212/old-media-is-the-new-hotness-for-chris-hughes-
and-larry-kramer/#comments Wed, 13 Feb 2013 00:13:56 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=294557 The business of news is a hard one, but at
least two people running publishing institutions say they’re optimistic. For
the moment, printed publications are valuable because they’re an established
way to make money, said Chris Hughes, publisher and editor in chief of the New
Republic, and Larry Kramer, president and publisher of USA Today, speaking
today at D: Dive Into Media. “I think we still belive that print has some
future,” said Kramer, whose paper has a staff of 200 to 300 reporters and a
circulation of 1.6 million. “Can I tell you how long? No.” Meanwhile, the
leading criticism of Hughes, who co-founded Facebook with his Harvard
classmates and left in 2007, is that he bought the New Republic as a sort of
feel-good personal project. Hughes, whose publication has a circulation of
44,000, admitted that he’s not expecting to get rich (again). “I think we can
be profitable. Certainly not this year, and not next year. But I think there’s
a route to it.” But he added, “We have a double-bottom-line business. I’m not
here to make a lot of money for myself. But I also have to prove to ourselves
and to the world that we can find a model of journalism that is sustainable.”
Both men described ways they are modernizing old media to make sure it
provides value. Kramer said he believes news is best when it’s timely and
delivered to users wherever they are, and then later made relevant with things
like unique angles and graphics. For instance, the announcement that the pope
was resigning broke at 7 am yesterday, and drove strong Web traffic to USA
Today for about three hours, but then dropped off. So, by the time the paper
came out the next morning, it led with the story, but took a a “second-day
lede” rather than treating the story as straight news. “Handing them a
newspaper the following day that acts as if this is the first time you’re
hearing it isn’t relevant,” Kramer said. Meanwhile, Hughes described an
approach to long-form journalism that treats stories as the beginning of a
conversation, which is then later “curated” through conversation and further
marginalia that “give it the dimension it deserves.” He said that the New
Republic receives more than a quarter of its traffic from social media. But
the Facebook co-founder was more positive on Twitter as a driver of traffic,
because it’s hard to stand out on Facebook. “We spend probably more time
thinking about Twitter and the environment where people are passing around
links than we do Facebook,” Hughes said. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130212/old-media-is-the-new-hotness-for-chris-hughes-
and-larry-kramer/feed/ 0 Timehop Hooks Up With USA Today to Deliver Stories
From the Past http://allthingsd.com/20130125/timehop-hooks-up-with-usa-today-
to-deliver-stories-from-the-past/ http://allthingsd.com/20130125/timehop-
hooks-up-with-usa-today-to-deliver-stories-from-the-past/#comments Fri, 25 Jan
2013 16:04:11 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=288590 Ask any marketer —
nostalgia sells. It’s longing paired with the passage of time, a sense of how
things were once “better,” or at least different, than they are today. Bottle
that feeling, and you’ve got a potential customer in the bag. It’s why Timehop
— the mobile app that serves up a daily summary of your past social activity
on Facebook and Twitter from years ago — is so powerful. And it’s also likely
why USA Today has partnered up with Timehop, and is now delivering users
relevant news from the past in their daily Timehop updates. It works like so:
Anyone familiar with Timehop knows that the service will send you a little
notification each morning, letting you know that your trip back in time to
view your old status updates and tweets is ready. With the new partnership,
users will see a significant, newsy item from the past, and the contemporary
story matched to that day. So, for example, you may see what the state of the
Mars rover mission was six years ago, and a story about where the program is
today. “What Timehop is doing is trying to work with the long tail of content
and resurface it,” USA Today social marketing director Mark Smith told me.
“Here, USA Today is trying to do the same thing with news content, and the
ability to bring back old, iconic headlines to people on a daily basis.” It’s
not always the “obvious” moment, either. While an item may have been a huge
deal say, three years ago, perhaps the lasting news value of it was nil.
“We’re looking for those small moments that turn into something bigger,” Smith
said. There’s an obvious draw for USA Today to be included here: All of the
past stories inside the app will link out to a USA Today piece hosted on the
publication’s site. It’s a small way of driving an extra bit of traffic out to
the paper’s daily site. (USA Today wouldn’t tell me what the terms of the deal
were with Timehop, or what the app got in return; my guess would be some sort
of affiliate fee.) To be honest, I was a little shocked to hear of the
partnership between the two organizations. Timehop is a small startup run by
only a handful of entrepreneurs, while USA Today is an institution. I don’t
often see major publications take chances on small tech-centric startups. But
I’d imagine that’s part of the attraction here. As Timehop is still fairly
under the radar of the mainstream, it’s a way for USA Today to toe the waters
of what social affiliate marketing can do, without going “whole hog,” as it
were. And the paper has proved experimental in the past, as one of the first
major news publications to partner with social magazine Flipboard. Smith is
bullish on Timehop’s sharing prospects, as users can push out their past
statuses and moments to Facebook and Twitter from inside the app. And, like
Timehop’s makers, Smith and his paper are banking on more users being charmed
as time goes on. On a personal note: It really is a charming app, popular
within the tech circles for surfacing all the old, stupid stuff we’ve updated
our statuses with over the years. We’ll see if the newsy touch can add the
same feeling. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130125/timehop-hooks-up-with-usa-
today-to-deliver-stories-from-the-past/feed/ 0 Listen Up! Beats Boss Jimmy
Iovine Comes to Dive Into Media. http://allthingsd.com/20130124/listen-up-
beats-boss-jimmy-iovine-comes-to-dive-into-media/
http://allthingsd.com/20130124/listen-up-beats-boss-jimmy-iovine-comes-to-
dive-into-media/#comments Thu, 24 Jan 2013 18:56:22 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=288284 We’re just a couple weeks away from our D:
Dive into Media conference, but there’s always time to add an icon to the
lineup: We’re very pleased to announce that music kingpin Jimmy Iovine will be
joining us onstage. Iovine is the studio engineer turned producer turned label
executive turned headphone impressario, and he’s worked with everyone from
Bruce Springsteen to U2 to Eminem to Lady Gaga. Current titles: Chairman,
Interscope Records, and co-founder, Beats By Dre. Those credentials alone
would make him a fascinating interview, but now he has added another line to
his resume: He’s trying to create a digital music subscription service with
mass market appeal. Lots of folks have tried this, but only Spotify seems to
have had some success so far. Iovine thinks he can do much better, with a
secret sauce that has something to do with a lot of curation and hand-holding.
That kind of confidence in your own taste-making ability runs counter to a lot
of today’s digital ethos, which holds that people will figure out what they
want to hear (or watch, or whatever) on their own, or with the help of
friends, or with code. And Iovine thinks that’s bunk. So this should be a fun
conversation! And we’ll have a bunch of them next month. Here’s the lineup of
speakers for Dive, which we’re holding Feb. 11 and 12 at the Ritz-Carlton in
Laguna Niguel, Calif: Sony Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton, Hearst Magazines
president David Carey, Google chief business officer Nikesh Arora, Facebook
partnership vice president Dan Rose, HBO co-President Eric Kessler, Live
Nation CEO Michael Rapino, CollegeHumor co-founder Ricky Van Veen, Vice Media
co-founder Shane Smith, Intel media head Erik Huggers and Samsung media head
David Eun, Netflix content chief Ted Sarandos (and guests), New Republic owner
Chris Hughes, USA Today publisher Larry Kramer, Dish Network founder Charlie
Ergen, and Microsoft Xbox executives Yusuf Mehdi and Nancy Tellem. Want to
join them? Head here, and we’ll see you soon. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130124/listen-up-beats-boss-jimmy-iovine-comes-to-
dive-into-media/feed/ 0 Game On! Xbox Bosses Mehdi, Tellem Come to Dive Into
Media. http://allthingsd.com/20130104/game-on-xbox-bosses-mehdi-tellem-come-
to-dive-into-media/ http://allthingsd.com/20130104/game-on-xbox-bosses-mehdi-
tellem-come-to-dive-into-media/#comments Fri, 04 Jan 2013 13:41:39 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=282365 You can spend lots of time speculating about
what happens when the TV and the Web finally converge. But if you want to
speed things up, just ask Microsoft, which is already watching it happen.
Redmond is facing all sorts of challenges, but its Xbox is a clear success,
not only as a gaming console, but as an Internet-connected entertainment
device, which gives users access to video services like Netflx and HBO Go,
and, increasingly, cable programming from the likes of ESPN. Microsoft says
Xbox users now spend more time consuming media than playing games. Which is
why we’re very excited to bring two key Xbox executives onstage next month at
D: Dive into Media: Yusuf Mehdi, senior vice president of Microsoft’s
Interactive Entertainment Business, and Nancy Tellem, the former CBS executive
who is building a new production studio for the device. Mehdi is the man
running marketing, strategy and corporate development for Xbox, and he’s the
guy who links the console up with all the studios, networks and publishers who
are creating content for the device. Prior to this job, he oversaw Microsoft’s
media presence on the Web. Tellem, a veteran TV executive, is the former CBS
president now tasked with creating new programming for the device. She’s
building out a Hollywood presence for Steve Ballmer, and her hire last fall
was Microsoft’s most aggressive move into the content business so far. They’re
joining a stellar lineup of speakers Feb. 11 and 12 at the Ritz-Carlton in
Laguna Niguel, Calif. Here’s who we’ve told you about so far: Sony
Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton, Hearst Magazines president David Carey,
Google chief business officer Nikesh Arora, Facebook partnership vice
president Dan Rose, HBO co-president Eric Kessler, Live Nation CEO Michael
Rapino, CollegeHumor co-founder Ricky Van Veen, Vice Media co-founder Shane
Smith, Intel media head Erik Huggers and Samsung media head David Eun, Netflix
content chief Ted Sarandos (and guest), New Republic owner Chris Hughes, USA
Today publisher Larry Kramer, and Dish Network founder Charlie Ergen. And,
yes, we’ll have yet more names to announce in the coming weeks. But if you
want to see these folks in person, register now, and we’ll see you soon. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130104/game-on-xbox-bosses-mehdi-tellem-come-to-dive-
into-media/feed/ 0 Meet the Man Who Wants to Blow Up the TV Business: Dish
Network's Charlie Ergen Comes to Dive Into Media
http://allthingsd.com/20121218/meet-the-man-who-wants-to-blow-up-the-tv-
business-dish-networks-charlie-ergen-comes-to-dive-into-media/
http://allthingsd.com/20121218/meet-the-man-who-wants-to-blow-up-the-tv-
business-dish-networks-charlie-ergen-comes-to-dive-into-media/#comments Tue,
18 Dec 2012 16:44:54 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=278903 Charlie Ergen
brings TV into 14 million houses, which means he’s got a very nice business
that has made him a billionaire. But while lots of pay-TV operators are happy
to keep things the way they are, Ergen keeps trying to blow them up: The Dish
Network co-founder and chairman is constantly fighting with the rest of the TV
Industrial Complex, in disputes that often end up in court. His most recent
and prominent battle is also the most important one: Dish’s new “Auto Hop”
technology lets satellite TV subscribers automatically skip commercials, and
that has both advertisers and TV networks in fits, for obvious reasons. But
that’s just one of Ergen’s recent adventures. He has also bought Blockbuster
out of bankruptcy in an attempt to take on Netflix, engaged in bruising
battles with Cablevision and its AMC Networks spinoff, and rattled his saber
against ESPN and its ever-increasing sports fees. Oh. He’s also talking to
Google, and everyone else, about getting into the wireless business. All of
which means the former blackjack and poker player is someone everyone in the
media world watches very, very closely, even though he doesn’t say much in
public. Which means we’re very excited to interview him at our D: Dive Into
Media conference in February. Ergen will be joining an all-star cast on Feb.
11 and 12 at the Ritz-Carlton in Laguna Niguel, Calif. Here’s who we’ve told
you about so far: Sony Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton, Hearst Magazines
president David Carey, Google chief business officer Nikesh Arora, Facebook
partnership vice president Dan Rose, HBO co-president Eric Kessler, Live
Nation CEO Michael Rapino, CollegeHumor co-founder Ricky Van Veen, Vice Media
co-founder Shane Smith, Intel media head Erik Huggers and Samsung media head
David Eun, Netflix content chief Ted Sarandos (and guest), New Republic owner
Chris Hughes, and USA Today publisher Larry Kramer. And there’s more to come!
Stay tuned. Meanwhile, we’re getting close to showtime, so make your
reservations now. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121218/meet-the-man-who-wants-
to-blow-up-the-tv-business-dish-networks-charlie-ergen-comes-to-dive-into-
media/feed/ 0 Old Media, New Tricks: The New Republic's Chris Hughes and USA
Today's Larry Kramer Join Dive Into Media http://allthingsd.com/20121212/old-
media-new-tricks-the-new-republics-chris-hughes-and-usa-todays-larry-kramer-
join-dive-into-media/ http://allthingsd.com/20121212/old-media-new-tricks-the-
new-republics-chris-hughes-and-usa-todays-larry-kramer-join-dive-into-
media/#comments Wed, 12 Dec 2012 13:00:03 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=277108 How do you take a print publication with a
famous name and a fraught business outlook, and transform it for the digital
age? Ask Chris Hughes and Larry Kramer. Hughes, one of the original Facebook
friends, used a bit of his newfound wealth to buy the storied New Republic
earlier this year. A few months after that, Gannett put Kramer, a longtime
digital media pro, in charge of its iconic USA Today. Those are two very
disparate publications, but they share a similar challenge: It’s very easy to
find the stuff they’re best at — political opinion and general news — for
free, all over the Internet. So how do you get readers and advertisers to pay
attention, and/or money? There’s a very good chance Hughes and Kramer won’t
solve that one by February, when they appear at our D: Dive into Media
conference in Laguna Niguel, California. But we’ll get a very interesting
progress report. And since they’ll be onstage at the same time, we should get
a very entertaining conversation, too. Kramer is a former reporter and editor
who ended up building and running big Web businesses — most notably
MarketWatch, which he sold to CBS in 2005. He then stuck around long enough to
help the TV giant embrace digital, via deals like the ones that put March
Madness on the Web and CBS TV shows on iTunes. For a smart overview of his
challenges at USA Today, see Ken Doctor’s take from earlier this year. Hughes,
quite famously, was one of Mark Zuckerberg’s roommates at Harvard, and became
Facebook’s first marketing and PR head. Then he joined Barack Obama’s first
presidential run, where he played a key role in the campaign’s pioneering use
of social media. Now he’s trying to revamp a 98-year-old magazine that used to
play a key role in Washington politics; for more on that see this excellent
New York magazine profile. They’ll join a pretty great cast at the stunning
Ritz Carlton in Laguna Niguel, Calif., on February 11 and 12. Here’s who we’ve
told you about so far: Sony Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton, Hearst Magazines
president David Carey, Google chief business officer Nikesh Arora, Facebook
partnership vice president Dan Rose, HBO co-president Eric Kessler, Live
Nation CEO Michael Rapino, CollegeHumor co-founder Ricky Van Veen, Vice Media
co-founder Shane Smith, Intel media head Erik Huggers and Samsung media head
David Eun, Netflix content chief Ted Sarandos and The Person From “Arrested
Development” We’d Like to Name But Can’t (Yet). More to come! In the meantime,
head here to find registration information for the conference. See you soon …
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121212/old-media-new-tricks-the-new-republics-
chris-hughes-and-usa-todays-larry-kramer-join-dive-into-media/feed/ 0 How to
Get Your Start-Up Acquired in Six Months or Less
http://allthingsd.com/20121019/how-to-get-your-start-up-acquired-in-six-
months-or-less/ http://allthingsd.com/20121019/how-to-get-your-start-up-
acquired-in-six-months-or-less/#comments Fri, 19 Oct 2012 14:00:05 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=261608 Fish image via Ivelin RadkovThe story of Zite
has been a whirlwind. We launched on March 9, 2011, and closed our acquisition
by CNN on Aug. 30 of the same year — just under six months later. But
acquisition was not our original plan. We never built the company with the
intention of getting acquired. When we launched Zite, we were thrilled to get
such a great reception from the press and hundreds of thousands of new users.
Our goal was to use that influx of users to secure series A funding to build a
team and compete effectively in a crowded market. But fate intervened, and we
got an attractive acquisition offer from CNN, a company that believed in our
vision. In hindsight, I can see that there were a few really smart things that
we did that made us an excellent acquisition target. My goal for this article
isn’t to give you a silver bullet for getting your company acquired, but
rather to offer some insight into what I think are the key reasons that Zite
was able to move from launch to transaction in such a compressed timeline.
Have a huge product launch — It doesn’t matter how good your product is if
people don’t know about it. Once we believed we had the right product, we
marketed it very hard. We spent much more money on PR surrounding our launch
than was fiscally prudent at the time (we were risking future payroll) because
we realized that we had one chance to tell the world that Zite was awesome.
This paid off in spades: On launch day, we had print articles in The Wall
Street Journal and USA Today, plus dozens of other fantastic pieces. This
yielded us top billing in the App Store for free applications, and 125,000
downloads in the first week. Put your best foot forward — We focused much of
our product design on the first minutes of the user experience. We knew that
if a user never saw our amazing personalization technology, we’d lose them,
and they’d think we were just a “me-too” news reader. We put our technology
front and center by designing a simple, intuitive set-up experience that
yielded immediate delight and serendipity. Have technology that is incredibly
difficult to replicate — You’re not going to get bought if the acquiring
company thinks they can build the product themselves. Zite had the advantage
of almost six years of R&D; (we were formerly called Worio), but until we
became Zite, we were a technology company with a product problem. Instead of
continuing to use the technology on a failed product, we pivoted to Zite. We
also seized the opportunity to launch on the iPad, which is the perfect
delivery device for the technology. Have a clear vision — We had a vision to
change the way people consume information. Zite (the product) and
personalization are components of that vision, but we proved that we were not
a one-trick pony, and we were excited about innovating on news delivery.
Disrupt the market — CNN noticed Zite after we received a cease-and-desist
from major media companies, including Time Inc. (which is a cousin of CNN,
since both are owned by Time Warner). My boss jokes, “If all of the media
companies were able to get their lawyers to send you a letter, then you must
be doing something right.” At the time, we weren’t sure how we would work with
publishers, and publishers weren’t sure of the value of Zite. We’re now on
solid ground with publishers, since they have realized the value of Zite as a
discovery engine — but at the time it was a great boost to our visibility
among the exact same executives who would later give us an offer for the
company. I want to stress that none of the above points are a guarantee that
your company will get acquired — let alone be successful — but they certainly
influenced CNN’s decision to buy Zite and, ultimately, our success to date.
Look for ways you can integrate these tips into your start-up, and even if you
aren’t acquired quickly, you will certainly build a better long-term offering
for whatever market you choose to address. Mark Johnson is CEO of Zite. He was
an adviser to the company for almost two years, prior to taking the CEO role.
He brings a strong product and technology background, with experience at
several successful search start-ups: Powerset (natural-language search,
acquired by Microsoft), Kosmix (categorized search, acquired by Walmart), and
SideStep (travel search, acquired by Kayak). Most recently, he led product at
Bing in San Francisco. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121019/how-to-get-your-
start-up-acquired-in-six-months-or-less/feed/ 9 A Sports Aggregator Finds a
Home: Gannett Buys Quickish http://allthingsd.com/20120611/a-sports-
aggregator-finds-a-home-gannett-buys-quickish/
http://allthingsd.com/20120611/a-sports-aggregator-finds-a-home-gannett-buys-
quickish/#comments Mon, 11 Jun 2012 12:00:45 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=218502 The folks at Gannett, the newspaper publisher
best known as the people who bring you USA Today, also want to be known for
online sports. Here’s another move in that direction: The company’s USA Today
Sports Media Group has acquired Quickish, a one-man sports aggregator run by
Dan Shanoff. This is a variation on your basic “acqhire,” the difference being
that Gannett intends to keep Quickish operating once Shanoff starts working
for them. Shanoff says he’ll also work on other digital projects for Gannett,
as an “audience-development executive” working for USA Today sports-biz guy
Dave Morgan. Quickish is a fairly straightforward aggegrator that offers a
summary and a link for sports stories throughout the day. Unlike aggregators
like Techmeme, there’s no special algorithm here — just Shanoff or one of his
freelancers picking stories to highlight and sources to link to. It’s closer
to what Jim Romenesko does on his media news site. When Shanoff launched last
year, he had plans to replicate the formula with other subjects, but never got
to it. More likely what happens now is that Gannett uses Quickish for more
niche “verticals” — you could have one of these for Nascar, one for the NFL,
etc. — and plugs it into various sites. The deal is one more sign that Gannett
wants to bulk up in digital sports. It has made a series of M&A; moves in the
last few years, the biggest being its purchase of Big Lead Sports in January.
(Image courtesy off Mike Flippo / Shutterstock.com) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120611/a-sports-aggregator-finds-a-home-gannett-buys-
quickish/feed/ 0 But What Does That Make "The Phantom Menace?"
http://allthingsd.com/20120105/but-what-does-that-make-the-phantom-menace/
http://allthingsd.com/20120105/but-what-does-that-make-the-phantom-
menace/#comments Fri, 06 Jan 2012 07:59:49 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=160780 The reason I’ve invested so much time and
money (creating Industrial Light & Magic, a premier special-effects house) is
because art is technology. — George Lucas, in conversation with Marco R. della
Cava of USA Today ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20120105/but-what-does-that-make-
the-phantom-menace/feed/ 2 NewsCred Raises $4 Million for Its Web-Based
Newswire http://allthingsd.com/20111130/newscred-raises-4-million-for-its-web-
based-newswire/ http://allthingsd.com/20111130/newscred-raises-4-million-for-
its-web-based-newswire/#comments Wed, 30 Nov 2011 14:00:11 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=148357 Problem: You own a Web site and would like to
fill it up with some nice-looking newsy content, but you don’t want to pay
people like me to make it. NewsCred wants to provide the answer: It syndicates
news stories from outlets like the Guardian, the Los Angeles Times and Forbes,
and places them on sites around the world. The New York-based start-up has
been at this in various incarnations since 2009, but CEO Shafqat Islam says
he’s getting some traction, and is able to charge Web publishers $3,000 to
$5,000 a month per “vertical” for access to his (borrowed) content. He says
he’ll do $1 million in revenue this year; last month, Islam raised a $4
million Series A round led by First Mark, along with Lerer Ventures, AOL
Ventures and Shari Redstone’s Advancit Capital. Content syndicators aren’t a
new idea, by any means, and NewsCred’s basic pitch sounds quite similar to
Mochilla, which has raised a pile of money. Several folks are trying versions
of this in video, including AOL’s 5min and U.K.-based Perform Group’s ePlayer.
And Demand Media has tried putting its super-low-cost freelancers to work for
publishers including USA Today. NewsCred’s basic pitch seems to be that it has
a better selection of blue-chip content makers, all of which are getting
guaranteed payments for their stuff. Islam pitches his product as a disruptor
out to take on the likes of the Associated Press, but he also syndicates
content from Reuters and Bloomberg, also giant newswires. So presumably they
don’t feel threatened quite yet. Here’s an interview I conducted with Islam
earlier this week, featuring a cameo from Pat the Contractor (NewsCred is in
the process of moving into its own place, after graduating from start-up
launcher General Assembly). (Side note: To get a sense of how difficult it is
to hammer out some of these content deals, or just get a foot in the door, see
this email exchange between Islam and an executive at Dow Jones, which, like
this Web site, is owned by News Corp.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111130/newscred-raises-4-million-for-its-web-based-
newswire/feed/ 0 From an Early Adopter of the Mini Submarine
http://allthingsd.com/20111101/from-an-early-adopter-of-the-mini-submarine/
http://allthingsd.com/20111101/from-an-early-adopter-of-the-mini-
submarine/#comments Tue, 01 Nov 2011 07:01:41 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=138607 I used to be the first guy who had to have a
cellphone. When cellphones first came out, I had the one that was the big base
station, it weighed about 14 pounds. Since then, I’ve become less interested
in being an early adopter of every gadget that’s out there. I won’t even use a
BlackBerry. — James Cameron, in USA Today ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111101/from-an-early-adopter-of-the-mini-
submarine/feed/ 1 Exclusive: Longtime Yahoo Front Page Editor Liz Lufkin Out
http://allthingsd.com/20110906/exclusive-longtime-yahoo-front-page-editor-liz-
lufkin-out/ http://allthingsd.com/20110906/exclusive-longtime-yahoo-front-
page-editor-liz-lufkin-out/#comments Tue, 06 Sep 2011 15:37:53 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=117124 According to sources close to the situation,
longtime Yahoo front page chief Liz Lufkin has parted ways with the company.
The departure last week appears to be related to a reorg by newish editor-in-
chief Jai Singh, who used to run the editorial efforts for the Huffington
Post, at the Silicon Valley Internet giant. Singh appears to be setting up his
own team and, thus, Lufkin was out. Lufkin has been at Yahoo for many years,
most recently as VP of front page programming. In that job, according to one
bio, she supervised “editors in Sunnyvale, Santa Monica, New York and Dallas
and consult[ed] to various international Yahoo! sites. Liz’s group contributed
to the successful development of Yahoo’s pioneering content optimization
personalization system, improving the relevancy of Front Page for users and
providing new insights on audience behavior.” Previous to Yahoo, she had been
deputy managing editor at Gannett’s USATODAY.com and USA Today. She had a
similar job at the Hearst-owned San Francisco Chronicle. Lufkin’s job at Yahoo
is a critical one, given how powerful the front page of the site is, with 600
million unique visitors and billions of page views. While the portal system
has been under siege in recent years, it is still a massive driver of traffic
to Yahoo’s own Web properties and elsewhere on the Internet. Yahoo declined to
comment (but I am right!). UPDATE: Yahoo said that it had hired CNET editor-
in-chief Scott Ard to take Lufkin’s place. Ard, who worked for the CBS-owned
tech news property for 12 years, will report directly to Jai Singh, editor-in-
chief of the Yahoo Media Network. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110906/exclusive-longtime-yahoo-front-page-editor-liz-
lufkin-out/feed/ 0 Zynga's FarmVille and CityVille Developer Spills the Beans
on What Makes Games Great http://allthingsd.com/20110301/zyngas-farmville-and-
cityville-developer-spills-the-beans-on-what-makes-games-great/
http://allthingsd.com/20110301/zyngas-farmville-and-cityville-developer-
spills-the-beans-on-what-makes-games-great/#comments Tue, 01 Mar 2011 18:21:16
+0000 http://emoney.allthingsd.com/?p=3190 Zynga dominants the social gaming
charts with three of the top four games on Facebook. So, it must be doing
something right, right? Hundreds of game developers yesterday showed up to
listen to Mark Skaggs, Zynga’s VP of product, who provided pieces of the
formula for building FarmVille and CityVille, two of its most popular games.
Skaggs was very informal, down to his slouchy black blazer, and handed out
plenty of free advice about the learning process of accumulating one million
players on FarmVille and 14 million on CityVille in the first 30 days. He also
mentioned a few little known facts about the games: The idea for developing
FarmVille came from one of Zynga’s investors, Bing Gordon, a partner at
Kleiner Perkins. One day, he put his feet up on the desk and asked, “Why don’t
make you a farm game?” Farmville peaked at 32.5 million daily users. If you
lined them up holding hands across the U.S., they’d cross 6.36 times from New
York to San Francisco. Production was so quick on FarmVille, the developers
stole the avatars from their other game YoVille. Zynga was going to retire the
old servers that were running Mafia Wars, but it opted for Amazon’s cloud
services, which easily handed the traffic explosion. FarmVille was going to
launch with only a dozen props, but they missed deadlines and went to market
with only nine. While things have now changed, moms were the killer audience
for FarmVille, leading the staff to call Facebook the “matriarch network.”
Seemed like forever, but there were only 18 months between FarmVille and
CityVille’s launches. CityVille missed its launch date. Despite stories in USA
Today and other publications, Zynga had to hold it for quality reasons. But
after launch, it went smoothly and attracted 14 million daily users in 30
days. And, other advice: Learn from success. Play games and look for common
threads. If you see someone offering a gifting interstitial, you probably
should mimic it. Be cautious about trying to “change the world of social
games.” You might get lucky and be really successful, but the reality is you
should look at what others are doing and follow their lead. It’s no longer a
mom network. CityVille was operational in four countries at launch, and has
since added three more. “The Germans play a lot and pay a lot.” Speed wins.
People are coming to you as a Web experience; make it fast. Make it fun. You
can’t make up for a boring game with volume. At the end of the day, ask
yourself, is it fun? If it’s not, who cares that you have a million seeds for
a user to pick from. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110301/zyngas-farmville-and-
cityville-developer-spills-the-beans-on-what-makes-games-great/feed/ 1 Web
Surfers Troubled by Tracking, Poll Says http://allthingsd.com/20101221/web-
surfers-troubled-by-tracking-poll-says/ http://allthingsd.com/20101221/web-
surfers-troubled-by-tracking-poll-says/#comments Wed, 22 Dec 2010 00:19:47
+0000 http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=34224 A new poll suggests most U.S.
Internet users are aware they are being tracked online by advertisers, and are
troubled by the practice. According to the poll, 61 percent of Internet users
said they’ve noticed that some online ads appear to be targeted at them based
on their Web-browsing habits. Curiously, though, 90 percent of respondents
said they pay little or no attention to online ads. Two-third of respondents
said advertisers should not be allowed to target ads based on online tracking.
And 61 percent said tracking is not justified even to keep websites free. The
poll, of 840 adult Internet users, was conducted Dec. 10-12 by USA Today and
Gallup Inc. The poll suggests users want more control over tracking and
behaviorally targeted advertising. Respondents were asked if they’d prefer to
allow all advertising networks to target ads, none to target ads or “only
those advertising networks you choose.” Nearly half, 47 percent, preferred
being able to select networks that could target ads; 37 percent did not want
any targeted ads and 14 percent said they would allow all targeted ads. Read
the rest of this post on the original site ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20101221/web-surfers-troubled-by-tracking-poll-
says/feed/ 0 News Outlets Circle Tablet http://allthingsd.com/20101008/news-
outlets-circle-tablet/ http://allthingsd.com/20101008/news-outlets-circle-
tablet/#comments Fri, 08 Oct 2010 07:00:42 +0000
http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=30837 Several major news organizations are
lining up behind a new tablet device from Samsung Electronics Co. built on
Google Inc. (GOOG) software, in order to broaden mobile readership beyond
owners of Apple Inc. (AAPL) popular iPad. New York Times Co. (NYT) and News
Corp.’s (NWS) Wall Street Journal will offer software applications for
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab, which goes on sale later this year, according to people
familiar with the matter. Gannett Co.’s USA Today also is developing a
software application, the publisher said. The device, announced in September,
is one of the most highly anticipated tablet launches since the iPad in part
because it is built on Google’s Android operating system, which is expected to
psprower a wave of new tablets. Publishers are hoping that the applications
they are building for the Galaxy can be easily adapted to other forthcoming
Android devices, say people familiar with the matter. Read the rest of this
post on the original site ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20101008/news-outlets-
circle-tablet/feed/ 0 An iPhone 4 Review Roundup
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/#comments Tue, 22
Jun 2010 22:09:48 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43315 “This is
really hot,” Apple (AAPL) CEO Steve Jobs said of the iPhone 4 when he unveiled
it at the company’s Worldwide Developers Conference earlier this month. And
the pundits seem to agree. The first reviews of the device began rolling in
Tuesday afternoon and they are largely glowing, despite some expected
complaints about the device’s performance on AT&T;’s (T) network. Below,
excerpts from a few of them. In both hardware and software, [the iPhone4] is a
major leap over its already-excellent predecessor, the iPhone 3GS. It has some
downsides and limitations–most important, the overwhelmed AT&T; network in the
U.S., which, in my tests, the new phone handled sometimes better and,
unfortunately, sometimes worse than its predecessor….But, overall, Apple has
delivered a big, well-designed update that, in my view, keeps it in the lead
in the smartphone wars…. The most important downside of the iPhone 4 is that,
in the U.S., it’s shackled to AT&T;, which not only still operates a network
that has trouble connecting and maintaining calls in many cities, but now has
abandoned unlimited, flat-rate data plans. Apple needs a second network. Both
Apple and AT&T; told me they worked to make the iPhone 4 do a better job with
AT&T;’s network. For example, the phone itself is surrounded by a prominent
stainless-steel trim piece that acts as a large antenna. And Apple said it
also tuned the phone to try to grab whatever band on the network was less
congested or less affected by interference–to stress the quality of a signal
over its raw strength. AT&T; said it, too, made some changes to its network
with the new iPhone in mind. But, in my tests, network reception was a mixed
bag. — Walt Mossberg, The Wall Street Journal [The iPhone 4] is not the first
phone with both a front and back camera. It’s not even the first one to make
video calls. But the iPhone 4 is the first phone to make good video calls,
reliably, with no sign-up or setup, with a single tap. The picture and audio
are rock solid, with very little delay, and it works the first time and every
time….Now, the iPhone is no longer the undisputed king of app phones. In
particular, the technically inclined may find greater flexibility and choice
among its Android rivals, like the HTC Incredible and Evo. They’re more
complicated, and their app store not as good, but they’re loaded with
droolworthy features like turn-by-turn GPS instructions, speech recognition
that saves you typing, removable batteries and a choice of cell networks. If
what you care about, however, is size and shape, beauty and battery life,
polish and pleasure, then the iPhone 4 is calling your name. — David Pogue,
New York Times The new iPhone 4 I’ve been testing for about a week and a
half–along with the major refresh of the mobile operating system software at
the core of recent models–demonstrates once again why Apple’s handset is the
one to beat, even as it faces fierce competition from phones based on Google’s
Android platform, among others….Critics are left with reasons to whine.
Apple’s public dissing of Adobe Flash means you’ll still come upon Web video
sites that don’t make nice with the iPhone. I had a few dropped calls. The
battery still isn’t user-replaceable, and there’s no slot for expanding
memory. — Ed Baig, USA Today We’re not going to beat around the bush–in our
approximation, the iPhone 4 is the best smartphone on the market right now.
The combination of gorgeous new hardware, that amazing display, upgraded
cameras, and major improvements to the operating system make this an extremely
formidable package. Yes, there are still pain points that we want to see Apple
fix, and yes, there are some amazing alternatives to the iPhone 4 out there.
But when it comes to the total package–fit and finish in both software and
hardware, performance, app selection, and all of the little details that make
a device like this what it is–we think it’s the cream of the current crop. We
won’t argue that a lot of this is a matter of taste–some people will just
prefer the way Android or Symbian works to the iPhone, and others will be on
the lookout for a hardware keyboard or a particular asset that the iPhone 4
lacks–but in terms of the total picture, it’s tough to deny that Apple has
moved one step past the competition with this phone. — Josh Topolsky, Engadget
The fourth incarnation of Apple’s iPhone is an incrementally improved,
familiar device–not a new kind of device, as was the case with the recent
introduction of iPad. Yes, the notable features with iPhone 4–both the device
and the iOS4, which came out yesterday in advance of the iPhone itself–are
mostly tweaks. But what tweaks they are: Apple’s focus on improvement is as
much key to the quality of its products as innovation. But there’s one flaw it
doesn’t improve: the poor quality of calls placed over AT&T;, which remains
the iPhone’s only U.S. carrier….AT&T; still sucks, and the best engineering
out of Cupertino won’t change that. — Xeni Jardin, BoingBoing ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/feed/ 0 Demand
Media's Richard Rosenblatt and ProPublica's Paul Steiger Live at D8
http://allthingsd.com/20100603/richard-rosenblatt-paul-steiger-session/
http://allthingsd.com/20100603/richard-rosenblatt-paul-steiger-
session/#comments Thu, 03 Jun 2010 16:10:32 +0000
http://d8.allthingsd.com/?p=486 What’s the future of the media business?
Demand Media, the Google-savvy “content farm” that generates thousands of
computer-assigned, low-cost Web items a day? Or ProPublica, a nonprofit that
produces deep-dive investigative pieces and publishes them on its own site and
in the pages of high-profile partners? Good guess: Some of both. But let’s
allow both parties to make their own case. Brief background: Demand Media is
Richard Rosenblatt’s follow-up to MySpace, which he sold to News Corp. (NWS);
Paul Steiger founded ProPublica after a long career at The Wall Street
Journal. Below is the full video of the interview, followed by the liveblog:
Liveblog 9:41 am: Kara asks Paul Steiger to explain what he’s up to. Steiger:
Stories are aimed at abuse of power and empowering people to make change. I
started there because when I was leaving the Journal in 2007, the traditional
news business was collapsing. We had $10 million in funding and that wasn’t
something I could turn down in that environment. I didn’t have time to be
worried–I had to leave the Journal because of mandatory retirement age, and my
wife said I couldn’t wear sweatpants during the weekday. 9:44 am: Kara to
Rosenblatt–Please explain the controversy regarding Demand. [WARNING:
Rosenblatt speaks very quickly. It’s unlikely that I’ll be able to get more
than impressionistic stabs at what he’s saying.] “We only write content that
people want….We’re not journalists, all right? The only people that call us
journalists are journalists.” That said, what we do is “more like service
journalism….There’s no piece of content made that we think is good” because we
only make content that people tell us they think is good. 9:46 am:
Rosenblatt–We do no marketing. All traffic comes from organic search. I don’t
know why people call this “dreck.” When you do something 6,000 times a day, it
always looks like it’s of low-quality. We’re okay with that; we’re continually
trying to prove to people that we’re doing good stuff. We have a deal with USA
Today and others that we’ll be announcing. 9:47 am: Kara to Steiger–What do
you think of all this? Steiger: I see this as a reordering of the environment
that we’re all going to have to live in. You [Demand] make stuff people want;
you control costs, and it’s working. Another model is the Politico model, with
a combination of tightly controlled print plus a big Web site. We do the most
expensive, the most important journalism for democracy. Kara: Example?
Steiger: A story we did with the Los Angeles Times about nurses getting bogus
licenses. A story about police in New Orleans killing people. There are five
or six things like that in the past year where we can point to changes that
have taken place because of our stories. These things can cost tens of
thousands or hundreds of thousands to produce. In the old days, that could be
a loss leader for for-profit newspapers. Can’t do that anymore, so we need
philanthropy. “Silicon Valley, come on in!” 9:50 am: Kara to Rosenblatt–Will
you do “Top 10 nurses that beat people up”? Rosenblatt: No Kara: Wait a
minute! People may want it! Rosenblatt: I think journalism is important, and
the problem is trying to pay for it. We can help publications like USA Today,
where we generate content and revenue for them, and they can take that money
to fund other reporting. We’re not going to save journalism, but we can help
it. Kara to Rosenblatt: You employ a lot of journalists. Rosenblatt: Not
journalists. Kara: Former journalists? Rosenblatt: They may have been former
journalists, and they may do journalism somewhere else. We call them
freelancers, content creators. 9:53 am: Kara asks Rosenblatt to explain
editing/oversight. Rosenblatt: Eleven people touch this stuff before it gets
published, etc. Anyway, let’s say we do 7,000 pieces of content a day. That’s
77,000 individual touches per day, with 10,000 freelancers around the Web.
That’s amazing. That’s what the Web is made for. 9:54 am: Kara–How do they get
paid? Rosenblatt: They can get paid by piece or by revenue-share. But most of
them prefer to get paid by content, because it’s guaranteed. 9:55 am: Kara–at
The Wall Street Journal, we had people who worked for months on a single
story. Is that done? Steiger: The Journal, the New York Times and Washington
Post are still vertically integrated and have powerful enough brands and
talent that I think they can make it into the next generation. Kara: Two of
those are in dicey shape. Steiger: Remember that there are two things going on
right now. There is a secular shift, with the business model being destroyed.
But there’s also a recession. So as that eases, we’ll have a better sense of
who can survive. 9:58 am: Steiger–I’d love to go back to 10 years ago, or
longer, to the golden age of journalism. But not even Silicon Valley can
produce a time machine. Kara: So do you think even the big newspapers that
survive will switch to audience-driven content creation? That’s not what
journalism is about. Steiger: No matter what you’re doing, you’re still making
stuff with an idea of what the people who are reading you want. It’s a broader
way of thinking about it than Demand, but there’s a common thread. 9:59 am:
Kara to Rosenblatt–Where is your actual business? Is it domains? Rosenblatt:
We have two main businesses: Registrar/domains. It’s steady, recurring
revenue, and it generates a lot of data. Almost 10 percent of the Web hits our
servers via these domains. It’s an exciting source of data. Then we have the
media business. That’s 50 percent bigger, in revenue, than other business and
growing fast. Of that business, less than 10 percent is domain advertising
business. Google (GOOG) and Yahoo (YHOO) stick ads on tenniselbow.com, etc. We
think that’s a great business also. Kara: Is your media business profitable?
Rosenblatt: Can’t talk about that. Kara: Does that mean it’s not profitable?
Rosenblatt: Can’t talk about that. Kara: But you’re going public, right?
Rosenblatt: Can’t talk about that. 10:03 am: Kara–you’re dependent on Google,
right? Rosenblatt: In the way that everyone is dependent on Google. Or that
the iPhone is dependent on AT&T; (T). But everyone searches on the Web. So
some of our sites, like eHow, are getting traffic from Google. But others
aren’t. If Google changes their algorithm, we think about that. But we spend a
lot of care on what we do, and we think there’s a move to quality long-tail
content that Google values. 10:05 am: Kara to Rosenblatt–AOL is doing what
you’re doing. Yahoo just bought Associated Content. It has more distribution
than you do. What does that mean for you? Rosenblatt: We love that AOL (AOL)
and Yahoo are validating what we’re doing. “In a market this big, that’s in
the first inning, there’s plenty of room for all of us.” 10:05 am: Kara to
Steiger–How do you feel about the kind of journalism you do becoming nonprofit
work? Does that depress you? Steiger: “I’m the opposite of disheartened. I’m
very excited.” Yes, the business is shrinking and people are losing jobs, and
I don’t want to make light of that. But we’re attracting great people; we’ve
won a Pulitzer Prize. The work will get done. The work is crucial to our
society, and it needs philanthropic support. But so do orchestras and clinics
and universities. 10:07 am: Kara–Is there a way to actually make money doing
this? Steiger: “Conceivably, but I can’t think of what it is.” If you’re
focused entirely on this, “at this stage, you need philanthropic help.” Kara
to Rosenblatt: Can you think of how to do this? Rosenblatt: You can hold a
conference and charge people $5,000 a head. [Applause in conference room and
in D8 cave.] Q&A; For Rosenblatt: Why won’t you call your people
“journalists”? Steve Jobs was full of venom for “bloggers,” too. Why not call
people who write for money “journalists”? Rosenblatt: If our writers want to
call themselves journalists, great. But they’re not doing reporting from
Afghanistan. We’re content creators, making things that people want. Steiger:
I just think that the labels get in the way. Q: Who are those 11 people that
touch Demand Media’s content? What do they do? Rosenblatt: Some people are
involved in “titling.” For SEO or social media purposes. Three people are
involved in checking each title. Then people involved in each property select
stories, depending on the voice. Then copy editors, copy chiefs, writers.
We’re actually going to be adding more. We can make it so efficient, that we
can add more roles, and everyone can keep making the same amount of money. Q:
What about rolling out content on the domains you run? A: Not yet. Maybe in
coming years. It’s not a focus right now. We do think the assets that you own
and we own, we think those assets “have great optionality later” to put
content on. Q for Steiger: Do you share Steve Jobs’s distaste for bloggers?
Steiger: I sleep with a blogger! My wife blogs from 11 pm to 2 am. I’m an
enthusiastic supporter of blogging. They bring a lot of audience to
ProPublica’s Web site. I think what Steve was getting at is that there’s a
danger of too many people commenting and not enough people finding out what’s
going on. [I don’t think that’s entirely what Jobs was complaining about,
btw.] This content-creation session is now over. A note about our coverage:
This liveblog is not an official transcript of the conversation that occurred
onstage. Rather, it is a compilation of quotes, paraphrased statements and ad-
lib observations written and posted to the Web as quickly as possible. It is
not intended as a transcript and should not be interpreted as one. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100603/richard-rosenblatt-paul-steiger-session/feed/ 0
Rupert Murdoch Still Needs Allies for His Digital News Crusade
http://allthingsd.com/20100519/rupert-murdoch-still-needs-allies-his-digital-
news-crusade/ http://allthingsd.com/20100519/rupert-murdoch-still-needs-
allies-his-digital-news-crusade/#comments Wed, 19 May 2010 10:00:02 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=19630 Within the next two weeks or so,
we’re supposed to hear about Rupert Murdoch’s digital news subscription
service–the one he has been trying to put together for many months. One
problem: That service is supposed to feature content from publications other
than those owned by Murdoch. And sources familiar with News Corp.’s plans tell
me Murdoch has yet to sign partners on to the venture. News Corp. officials do
say Murdoch is hopeful about bringing on Gannett (GCI), the publisher behind
USA Today and 82 smaller papers. A person familiar with talks between the
companies described them as “late stage.” A spokeswoman for News Corp. (NWS),
which owns this Web site, declined to comment; Gannett officials didn’t
respond to a request for comment. And it’s possible that Murdoch’s
lieutenants, led by digital boss Jon Miller, have other deals in the works
that they’re close to closing. That’s certainly what Murdoch hinted at in the
prepared remarks he delivered at the start of his May 4 earnings call: Today,
we are in final discussions with a number of publishers, device makers and
technology companies…and we will soon develop an innovative subscription model
that will deliver digital content to consumers…wherever and whenever they want
it. Later, in response to a reporter’s question about the subscription plan,
Murdoch went further, announcing that his company would be “giving a press
conference in about three to four weeks which we hope will have some important
announcements in.” But that would be a more effective press conference if
Murdoch could announce that he has convinced other big publishers to embrace
his model. Right now, at least, he can’t say that. This might seem like a
classic example of Murdoch going off script during an earnings call, which
happens with some frequency. But in this case, News Corp. officials have been
working on a similar timetable behind the scenes. For instance, I’m told that
they have been casting about for a public relations agency to help promote the
plan and have been telling prospective candidates about their proposed
schedule. So it seems that Murdoch may have been intentionally placing his
cart pre-horse in hopes that doing so would speed negotiations along. Can’t
wait to see if he’s right. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100519/rupert-murdoch-
still-needs-allies-his-digital-news-crusade/feed/ 0 For the iPad, Apps With
Their Own Wow Factor http://allthingsd.com/20100406/for-the-ipad-apps-with-
their-own-wow-factor/ http://allthingsd.com/20100406/for-the-ipad-apps-with-
their-own-wow-factor/#comments Tue, 06 Apr 2010 23:01:46 +0000
http://solution.allthingsd.com/?p=1159 In the days since the launch of Apple’s
iPad Saturday, there has been an explosion of apps to run on it—3,000 and
counting. They are mostly free and incorporate new ways of navigating one of
the largest screens on a mobile device that relies solely on touch technology.
On this large canvas, people work differently and apps can behave differently
depending on which way the device is turned. Apps can (and must) incorporate
creative ways of navigating—in addition to the usual multi-touch gestures like
flicking, two-finger swiping and pinching. Thus, although it runs most of the
150,000 apps already available for the much smaller iPhone and iPod touch, the
iPad is spawning a new type of tablet-specific app. This week, I’ve been
testing some of these iPad apps that give users novel ways to interact with
the device. These are designed to take advantage of a larger touch screen by
using things like fly-out menus, multi-panel layouts, 3-D images intermixed
with text and newspapers that can be read almost as easily as their paper
counterparts. Since most of us haven’t used apps like these or a device like
this before, many apps install with brief tutorials on how to navigate them.
It’s obvious that the makers of these iPad apps are still tinkering with what
works best for a large touch surface. And ads appear in several digital
newspaper and magazine apps. Unless otherwise noted, the apps listed below are
free. News Multi-tasking isn’t yet possible on the iPad, but the NPR app
allows people to do certain things simultaneously. While browsing news
stories, a player in the bottom portion of the screen lets you listen to
programs, interviews or songs. I played Jakob Dylan’s “Women and Country” song
while reading an article about NCAA basketball. Content can be saved to a
playlist for future listening. The Marvel Comics app The Wall Street Journal
app’s home page displays a horizontal row of newspapers representing the past
seven days’ editions and a “Now” edition, with late-breaking news, all of
which can be read when the iPad isn’t online. These editions are designed to
use the full screen to display easy-to-read newspaper layouts and videos that
play right within the articles. A finger swiped from the top down skips to a
different section of the paper, while pinching any screen with two fingers
returns to the home page. And you can save articles and sections. The WSJ iPad
app also can access saved data from a WSJ.com account. The app is free to
download but requires a subscription for full access, which costs $4 a week or
is free for a limited time to existing online or print subscribers. The New
York Times (NYT) app is called Editors’ Choice and looks like a roomier
version of the newspaper’s iPhone app. Five icons at the bottom of the screen
instantly jump to different sections of the paper, or you can flick a finger
across these screens to page to more articles. It doesn’t require a
subscription. The USA Today app brings the Gannett Co. (GCI) paper’s color-
coded blue, green, red and purple sections to the iPad. Its popular charts of
information (called “Snapshots”) pop out from the bottom left of the screen
and include polls that can be voted on using the device. The USA Today app
looks less like the print edition of the paper and more like a list of news
points with color photos beside each. This list can be scrolled with a simple
finger flick up or down. Magazines Digital magazines on the iPad seem to be
experimenting with different payment methods. Rodale Inc.’s Men’s Health, for
example, is a free app and includes previews of magazine issues, but then it
charges $5 to download the actual issue. Bonnier Corp.’s Popular Science app
costs $5 up-front and includes an issue that must be downloaded within the
app. Popular Science really uses the iPad’s larger surface in creative ways.
Instead of just letting you page ahead with each finger flick as if reading a
regular magazine, you can read articles by flicking a finger down or across a
screen. In some articles I read, images appeared to be floating in the
background behind text. Two fingers flicking up from the bottom of the screen
show shortcuts for a table of contents and previous magazine issues. Music
Pandora’s iPad app makes good use of the device’s screen real estate by
showing artist information, now-playing details, album art and a list of
personalized radio stations all on the same screen. I found myself more likely
to read about artists on the iPad than on my smaller iPod touch. But like many
Pandora users, I like playing music in the background as I work on other
tasks, and this isn’t possible on the iPad because it doesn’t allow third-
party apps like Pandora to multi-task. Entertainment Scrabble app The Marvel
Comics app displays stunning, large illustrations and moves you across the
screen to see them as if the comic is one continuous strip and there’s no
division between one screen and the next. A finger swipe moves you ahead in a
guided view that jumps you from one character’s dialog cloud to the next in
the correct order. This app is a free download and a handful of free comic
books come with it, but each additional book costs around $2. Scrabble for
iPad costs $10 and includes options for playing with friends by passing the
iPad back and forth, and an additional free app enables connecting an iPhone
or iPod touch to the iPad to use these smaller screens as tile racks. You can
play against your Facebook friends or the computer, and things like “Best
Word” and an option to shuffle tiles make the game a little easier to play for
some. Scrabble will even play your iTunes music in the background while you’re
dragging tiles onto the board using your finger. With Real Racing HD, you see
a 3-D view of racetracks and steer a car by leaning the iPad in the direction
you need to turn (a built-in accelerometer senses where you’re moving the
iPad). I played this $10 game while sitting in the back seat of a moving car
and got a bit dizzy since the race is so realistic. Education A great example
of how the iPad can be used for education can be seen in an app titled “The
Elements: A Visual Exploration,” developed by Touch Press. This costs $14 and
displays the periodic table of elements stretched across the screen. Selecting
one element brings it forward and spins a dazzling image of it so you can see
all sides of it. A link to the Web pulls in real-time information about that
element. iPad apps like The Elements: A Visual Exploration, above, make good
use of the larger touch screen. Others Apple’s (AAPL) iBooks and Amazon.com’s
(AMZN) Kindle are two terrific e-reader apps that bring digital books to the
iPad. There’s a strong argument for using the Kindle app, since books bought
through it can be accessed on a variety of platforms in addition to the iPad,
all in sync right where you left off reading, while iBooks are currently
limited to the iPad. But the books in iBooks are displayed in an arresting
way, with animation that resembles real pages turning. Pages, Keynote and
Numbers are Apple’s versions of Microsoft Word, PowerPoint and Excel and they
cost $10 each. When installed, these programs can convert documents from
Microsoft’s (MSFT) formats and let you work on them. They present rich, PC-
like features controlled by touch. Pages, also lets you convert the documents
back to the original Microsoft format. TruPhone and Skype will make calls over
the Internet using the iPad when you’re online, and in one test, this worked
relatively well. The Houzz Inc. app is a digital look book for interior-
decorating ideas that’s updated with current images of decorated houses. It
displays large images of decorated rooms across the iPad’s screen, allowing
you to search and save certain looks for offline access or sharing with
others. Edited by Walter S. Mossberg. Write to Katherine Boehret at
mossbergsolution@wsj.com More iPad Coverage » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100406/for-the-ipad-apps-with-their-own-wow-
factor/feed/ 0 Some Publishers Are Wary of Sales on iTunes
http://allthingsd.com/20100405/some-publishers-are-wary-of-sales-on-itunes/
http://allthingsd.com/20100405/some-publishers-are-wary-of-sales-on-
itunes/#comments Mon, 05 Apr 2010 12:00:37 +0000
http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=23522 Newspaper and magazine companies rushed
to prep their titles for the debut of Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) iPad last weekend.
But while publishers hail how the tablet computer lets them showcase their
wares, some are working to develop ways to sell their publications separately
from Apple’s iTunes. Tablet editions of Time and Popular Science
magazines–each priced at $4.99–were among the most popular paid downloads for
the iPad over the weekend. The thousands of iPad applications available so far
also include editions from GQ, Outside magazine, USA Today, the New York Times
(NYT) and The Wall Street Journal. The majority of magazines and newspapers
for the iPad are downloaded through iTunes, the channel to purchase music,
movies, books and other entertainment for the iPhone and iPad. The more than
125 million iTunes account holders can order iPad periodicals with just a few
taps on a screen, instead of pulling out their credit cards and signing into
multiple Web accounts. Read the rest of this post on the original site ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100405/some-publishers-are-wary-of-sales-on-
itunes/feed/ 0