Media A Hollywood Experiment: Paramount Streams “Transformers” to Your PC
Published on October 4, 2011 by Peter Kafka If you want to watch
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon” at home, you’ve got a lot of options. Here’s
an unusual one from Paramount: The studio is renting streams direct to
consumers, via its own site. Pay $3.99 and you can watch Optimus Prime and his
pals romp through Chicago on your PC as many times as you’d like, for up to 48
hours. If you’re running a Windows machine, you can pay $4.99 for an HD stream
(you’ll need to have Microsoft’s Silverlight installed for both versions, so
no iPad/iPhone option). Advertising Age describes this as an end run around
Netflix, but since Reed Hastings’s video service never streams movies during
their initial VOD/DVD window, a more apt analogy would be Amazon and Apple,
which do. Studios like Time Warner’s Warner Bros. have also experimented with
renting movies directly via Facebook, but those are generally older catalog
films, not fresh stuff. You can see why Paramount would be interested in
trying this out — if it works, the studio keeps all of the rental fee, and it
establishes a direct billing and marketing relationship with its customers —
but it’s also easy to see the hurdles. Unlike Apple, Amazon and Facebook,
etc., Paramount will have a difficult time finding its fans. And once it does,
it will require them to pull out a credit card to complete the transaction — a
PayPal, Facebook Credits or iTunes account won’t help you here. Paramount is
careful to describe this as a “toe-dip” experiment. Nothing wrong with that.
Hard to see where this leads, though. Return to: A Hollywood Experiment:
Paramount Streams “Transformers” to Your PC URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20111004/a-hollywood-experiment-paramount-streams-
transformers-to-your-pc/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | ©
2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.