Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
4/3/2012 7:40PM For Home Decorating, This App is Worth a Click For home
decorators, Houzz is a website and app that offers an almost limitless number
of ideas. WSJ's Katherine Boehret says the site allows users to mix and match
ideas and consult with other users and designers. Transcript This transcript
has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.I ... I ... Wall
Street Journal ... what a lot of home make over TV or read to the hall
magazines that show beautifully redesigned friends ... in you may be inspired
by a new website called House ... passes a bell pull on the web and has an app
on the I pad and on the I phone and I've been testing and and all three places
for the past week ... also as a selected various friends designed by all sorts
of designers and you can browse by spaceflight the bathroom or the living room
or the kids and ... I style my contemporary or Asian ... or you can browse by
vocation of the designer him a background for example I live in the DC area
... and I can sort all their plans to just show that women's defined by people
who live and in this area and operate their design firms in this area ...
around the lanky can favorites in what's called an IED of book ... now this
can be kept private art can be shared with other people ... in contrast to
canter estimates as of Friday wary can share all sorts of ideas went out for
artwork ... wedding night Deen's their home decorating but everything in
contrast is made public by default and they can be changed so ... I really
liked the Privacy aspect of idea books but in the house lights ... the Likud
discussions that are held between people who admire and Santa designers to
create this was ... the designers might tell someone how much something costs
or ... how large a farmhouse think it is or ... how difficult it is to
reinstall a different type of feeling in a specific reason ... and one of the
new features that in house art tiny green tacking that appear with projects in
the picture ... and the flight back and forth twenty is on the I phone or the
I pad to add a little bit of whimsical enemies ... next they'll be bringing
our house on the InTrade platform ... and next month they will introduce
something and have called for a light box and this LSE to live in several
different as their increasingly ... using a slide show that automatically
wants its ... how does that mean that your house will automatically be
redecorated and redesigns ... he might just get inspiration from and to keep
in mind that a lot of these products in these that defines brands are more
expensive so ... anyone to read the defections to get suggestions from other
people who use the site ... for cheaper alternatives I found a pottery by ...
chandelier that was four hundred dollars versus the chandelier his inner rim
that was five thousand dollars ... if you'd like to use the professional
designer to help you with your house you can click on a professional factions
with in house ... and there are some one point three million different
designers and design firms that will be happy to help you ... with your house
... there were thirty thousand different designers and design firms alone in
the DC natural air ... the check out this website are the EyePet App or the I
phone ... to get some idea as hard to actually hire different designers ...
and Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked
1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News for President Trump?
1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35
China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More →
Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of
Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled House elected Nancy
Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle with President Trump
over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of
'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New
Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks to Border Wall Demands as
Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven: One Family's Journey
After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More → Moving Upstream 9:56
Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to Traffic and Sabbath
12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting speed bumps in the
U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one in 10 residents has
rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be embracing them. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and potential lessons of the
e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-Tube Steak 12/11/2018
5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take Extreme Measures
12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to Identify Good and Evil
11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the Cockpit 11/12/2018
5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News
For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a blockbuster jobs
report despite a trade war with China and a partial government shutdown. WSJ's
Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for President Trump. Photo:
Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42
Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It 1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite
Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon
Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell
Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of
the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for
Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim
Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over
Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have
Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content
11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing
violence from her hometown in Honduras, Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands
of miles with her daughter to the Mexico - U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall
Street Journal followed her as she weighed her options to cross into the U.S.,
hoping to leave behind her past. Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle
to Keep a Son's Promise 12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence
Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China
Manipulate Amazon 12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in
the Restaurant Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get
the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018
DeepSense, based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence
to assess job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts.
WSJ’s Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest
to Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition
Spurs Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On