Media YouTube Gets Jay-Z to Help Sell TV Published on May 3, 2012 by Peter
Kafka YouTube wants to look more like TV. Which means, among other things,
getting people you might have seen on TV to start making shows for YouTube.
This is the strategy that all of the big Web portals are suddenly employing.
And they’re making a particularly big deal about it right now, because they’re
all putting on fancy showcases for advertisers, modeled on the “upfront”
presentations the TV guys put on every year. YouTube’s was last night, at New
York’s Beacon Theatre, and it was by far the most extravagant shindig of the
bunch. (This included the post-event dinners, where YouTubers schmoozed
advertisers at many of the city’s nicest restaurants: Ma Peche, Del Posto, A
Voce, etc.) If you didn’t go last night (you really did need a ticket), here’s
the finale, via an unofficial shakycam grab. If you can’t pick this up from
the clip, I can attest that the crowd really did get a huge kick out of this.
Perhaps the YouTube folks will put up a fancier version later on: And here’s a
list of famous, semi-famous, or kinda-maybe-famous people that joined Jay-Z
onstage: Neon Trees Pharrell Williams Miri Ben-Ari Chris Hardwick Jon Avnet
and Rodrigo Garcia Julia Stiles Sarah Jones Jennifer Beals Caitlin Gerard
Virginia Madsen Brian Robbins Flo Rida (Image courtesy of Life and Times)
Return to: YouTube Gets Jay-Z to Help Sell TV URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20120503/youtube-gets-jay-z-to-help-sell-tv/ Brought to
you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All
Rights Reserved.