News Yahoo Announces Next Gmail Feature Published on August 27, 2007 by John
Paczkowski Yahoo finally beat Google to something. It brought its email client
out of beta before Gmail. This morning Yahoo officially relaunched Yahoo Mail,
ending a two-year public test of the Web-based email service that began in
September 2005. Its overhaul completed, Yahoo Mail is no longer just a Webmail
client, it’s a “social communication” tool. “Our goal is to make (Yahoo) Mail
a more social experience,” John Kremer, vice president of Yahoo Mail, told
Reuters. “We really look at ourselves as sitting on top of the largest dormant
social network out there.” To that end, Yahoo Mail now boasts SMS (short
message service) support, offering its users the ability to send text messages
to cellphones. It’s the first free Web-based email service to offer that
feature, and it’s almost certainly starting a trend by doing so. Notes Paul
Ruppert, founder of mobile-market consultancy Global Point View, SMS usage is
exploding: “The future of mobile messaging with over 3 trillion text messages
annually would logically seem well secured,” he wrote in a post to Mobile
Messaging 2.0. “A well of demand currently from 2.1 billlion users globally is
not going to dry up over night. Plus, all the trends are upward. There is
revenue and SMS usage growth in even the most mature country markets such as
the U.K. Message-dense nations with high percentages of young populations,
mostly in Asia, continue to come online to mobile. Even in markets like the
U.S., which lagged in embracing the ease and power of texting and seemingly
preferred email and instant messaging, text messaging has become an intimate
aspect of daily lives, especially for those 15 to 25.” Return to: Yahoo
Announces Next Gmail Feature URL: http://allthingsd.com/20070827/yahoo-mail/
Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company,
Inc. All Rights Reserved.