News Former HP CEO Shifts Blame for Autonomy Deal to Chairman Published on
December 13, 2012 by Arik Hesseldahl Ever since Hewlett-Packard said it would
write off $5 billion for Autonomy, the British software firm for which it paid
north of $11 billion last year, a lot of blame has been cast on LÃ©o
Apotheker, the CEO who led HP at the time. Today, for some reason, he decided
to reach out to Bloomberg News with an emailed statement. The point?
Apparently to remind the world that he wasn’t the only one making decisions at
the time regarding the deal that ultimately cost him his job. According to the
Bloomberg report, Apotheker says that “no single CEO is ever able to make a
decision on a major acquisition in isolation, particularly at a company as
large as HP — and certainly not without the full support of the chairman of
the board.” He then turns his guns on Chairman Ray Lane, without mentioning
him by name: “The HP board, led by its chairman, met many times to review the
acquisition and unanimously supported the deal, as well as the underlying
strategic objective to bolster HPâs market presence in enterprise data.”
Indeed, he has a point. It’s also worth remembering that the board at the time
included HP’s current CEO, Meg Whitman, who took over the job in the wake of
Apotheker’s ouster less than a month after the Autonomy deal was announced.
There was more to call Apotheker’s competence into question that day — Aug.
18, 2011 — that contributed toward his stint as CEO being cut short. HP fell
short on earnings, and he also launched the ill-fated effort to spin off the
PC unit as a separate company, and killed the Palm handheld and tablet unit
acquired only a year earlier by his predecessor Mark Hurd. Clearly, Apotheker
doesn’t like getting all the blame for the deal. Lane was certainly at the
table, and lent his support for it. And, for that matter, so was Whitman.
Consider yourself reminded. Return to: Former HP CEO Shifts Blame for Autonomy
Deal to Chairman URL: http://allthingsd.com/20121213/former-hp-ceo-shifts-
blame-for-autonomy-deal-to-chairman/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal
| © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.