News What Do Rush and NPR Have in Common? Internet Talk Radio Hub Stitcher
Nabs $6 Million From Benchmark. Published on April 6, 2010 by Kara Swisher
Online talk radio aggregator Stitcher nabbed $6 million from Benchmark Capital
and will use the money to give radio blabbermouth Rush Limbaugh, as well as
the endlessly talking heads of National Public Radio, even more digital
distribution. The San Francisco-based start-up often describes itself as the
the Pandora of online talk radio. And like the digital music site, Stitcher
lets its users create and customize their own free personalized
talk/information/news radio stations. The site focuses mostly on its apps for
a variety of mobile devices, especially increasingly popular smartphones. It
offers programs from about a thousand different sources, such as NPR, E! and
The Onion. Stitcher also recommends new programs to users based on their
selections. The infusion of funding in a Series B round led by Benchmark–whose
partner, Bob Kagle, will have a seat Stitcher’s board–will allow it to expand
its advertising sales force and improve its offerings, said CEO Noah Shanok in
an interview with BoomTown last night. “The hope for everyone in terrestrial
radio is to find new audiences, so as we grow, they will too,” said Shanok,
who co-founded Stitcher in 2008. “We want to be a part of everyone’s everyday
life.” Shanok said fast-growing usage and engagement–which he declined to give
specifics about–was the reason Benchmark was attracted to the company. The new
funding adds to $3 million Stitcher already raised from New Atlantic Ventures
and investors Ed Scott and Ron Conway, who also participated in the new round.
While the mobile app on the Apple (AAPL) iPhone is the most popular, Stitcher
also offers software for Research in Motion (RIMM) BlackBerry, Palm (PALM) Pre
and Google (GOOG) Android devices. Stitcher is also pushing into other areas,
such as being part of Ford’s (F) initiative to make its SYNC-enabled vehicles
into Wi-Fi hotspots, allowing people to connect to the Internet everywhere
much more seamlessly in a moving car. They will be available later this year.
Here’s the press release on the funding: Stitcher Secures $6 Million in Series
B Venture Funding Benchmark Capital Leads New Round to Help Transform the Way
We Listen to Talk Radio SAN FRANCISCO, CA. (April 6, 2010)–Today, Stitcher, a
service that allows users to customize talk radio programming on their mobile
devices, announced that it has completed its Series B round of financing. Led
by Benchmark Capital, with participation from previous investor New Atlantic
Ventures and tech veterans including Ed Scott and Ron Conway, the funding will
be used to further Stitcher’s product and platform development. Bob Kagle of
Benchmark will join Stitcher’s board of directors. “We know that people prefer
listening to news, talk and information programming when they’re on-the-go.
The rise of smartphones has finally created an opportunity to give people
exactly what they want to hear–on their commute, at the gym, on a road-
trip–wherever and whenever they want it and that’s exactly what Stitcher
does,” said Noah Shanok, CEO of Stitcher. “Benchmark’s funding, combined with
Bob’s guidance, will help us continue to take advantage of the growing market
for mobile content distribution.” Stitcher’s free service allows users to
create a personalized audio programming experience. With Stitcher, users can
listen to the news and talk radio shows they enjoy whenever and wherever they
like, using their mobile devices. Users choose their favorite programs from
more than a thousand different sources, and Stitcher then delivers the audio
feeds to their phone as a single, regularly updating radio station. Stitcher
also helps users discover new content on a variety of topics–including
business, sports, politics, entertainment, and current events–by recommending
additional programs based on the shows users have in their feeds. A single
radio station can include programming as diverse as Fox Headline News, NPRâs
Fresh Air, TechCrunch Headlines, Onion Radio News, and E!’s Hollywood Rap Up.
“Stitcher is transforming the way we all consume news, talk radio, pod casts,”
said Bob Kagle, general partner at Benchmark Capital. “Noah and his team are
building a platform that will deliver the personalized experience consumers
currently enjoy for music to the broader world of audio programming. We’re
thrilled to join the Stitcher revolution.” Return to: What Do Rush and NPR
Have in Common? Internet Talk Radio Hub Stitcher Nabs $6 Million From
Benchmark. URL: http://allthingsd.com/20100406/what-do-rush-and-npr-have-in-
common-internet-talk-radio-hub-stitcher-nabs-6-million-from-benchmark/ Brought
to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All
Rights Reserved.