AllThingsD » Nano http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000 en-US
hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Apple Working on iPhone Nano?
http://allthingsd.com/20110210/apple-working-on-iphone-nano/
http://allthingsd.com/20110210/apple-working-on-iphone-nano/#comments Thu, 10
Feb 2011 23:41:16 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=57631 Apple is
reportedly working on another new iPhone–a smaller device designed to compete
with the proliferation of cheaper smartphones running Android. Sources who’ve
seen a prototype of this iPhone…Nano tell Bloomberg that it’s about one-third
smaller than the iPhone 4 and that Apple is considering selling it for about
$200, off contract thanks to a Universal SIM–if it decides to release it at
all. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110210/apple-working-on-iphone-nano/feed/ 3
PayPal Hires VP of Global Design From Apple
http://allthingsd.com/20110131/paypal-hires-vp-of-global-design-from-apple/
http://allthingsd.com/20110131/paypal-hires-vp-of-global-design-from-
apple/#comments Mon, 31 Jan 2011 20:30:16 +0000
http://emoney.allthingsd.com/?p=2177 PayPal has hired Sarah Brody, a seven-
year veteran of Apple, for the position of VP of Global design. The company
confirmed the appointment to us after we got wind of an internal memo sent out
to employees today. In her new position at eBay-owned PayPal, Brody will focus
on improving the PayPal user experience and making sure that its payment
platform is easy to use. Brody was previously at Apple, where she worked on
the first iPhone and an early version of the iPod Nano. Some of her more
recent design work can be seen on the homepages of Final Cut Studio, Logic
Studio and Pro. Picking up a design guru from Apple, which is known for its
simple, yet exquisite, designs (and preference for as few buttons as
possible), is a coup for PayPal. However, just last week the company announced
it had lost Osama Bedier, who took a job at Google after working for PayPal
for eight years, and most recently oversaw the company’s global payments
platform, including mobile. Correction: In a previous version of the story, we
wrote that the memo also said PayPal was still on the hunt for a new leader
for its global product and experience leadership team. However, Sam Shrauger
was promoted internally into the position. UPDATE 2: We also learned today
that PayPal’s parent company, eBay, has hired two new search experts from
Facebook and Microsoft. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110131/paypal-hires-vp-of-
global-design-from-apple/feed/ 1 Steve Jobs on Why Facebook Is Not Part of
Apple's New Ping Music Social Network: "Onerous Terms"
http://allthingsd.com/20100902/steve-jobs-on-why-facebook-is-not-part-of-
apples-new-ping-music-social-network-onerous-terms/
http://allthingsd.com/20100902/steve-jobs-on-why-facebook-is-not-part-of-
apples-new-ping-music-social-network-onerous-terms/#comments Thu, 02 Sep 2010
10:05:03 +0000 http://kara.allthingsd.com/?p=33273 Yesterday, at the Apple
music event in San Francisco, I had a short chat with Apple CEO Steve Jobs as
he strolled through the demo room for the media, just after he had announced
various updates for the iPod, Apple TV and iTunes onstage. One of the those
was the introduction of a new social network for music called Ping that Apple
(AAPL) has integrated within iTunes 10 and which looks an awful lot like the
experience you get on Facebook. Essentially, it is a vertical version–in this
case for music–of the powerful social networking site. Facebook has noodled
for years about creating its own social music offering, including doing a
partnership with Lala, which was bought by Apple last year and shuttered in
June. But its efforts have largely gone nowhere. And Facebook is nowhere on
Ping, either. Currently, there is no linking, sharing or participation of any
kind with Facebook–or Twitter or MySpace–on Ping, which will work only on the
iTunes software on computers, iPhones and iPods. When I asked Jobs about that,
he said Apple had indeed held talks with Facebook about a variety of
unspecified partnerships related to Ping, but the discussions went nowhere.
The reason, according to Jobs: Facebook wanted “onerous terms that we could
not agree to,” related to connecting with Facebook friends on Ping. For those
who are struck by the word, the definition of onerous, according to an online
dictionary: “Involving an amount of effort and difficulty that is oppressively
burdensome; Involving heavy obligations.” Jobs did not elaborate on those
troublesome terms and also would not say if Ping would incorporate connecting
with Facebook or even using Facebook Connect–which would make it much easier
to find friends to share music with. “We could, I guess,” he shrugged. And
when I asked how to find friends, Jobs offered, noting iTunes had 160 million
users across the globe: “You can type their names into search or send them
emails inviting them to join.” Okay, although being more open would work too!
As MediaMemo’s Peter Kafka noted: “Maybe Apple plans on joining the rest of
the Web, via an open API that will let Facebook, Twitter et al–maybe even the
to-be-launched Google (GOOG) music service–play nicely with Ping. We’ll see.”
Facebook–including some execs who are definitely irked about how closely Ping
resembles Facebook, right down to the blue color scheme–hopes so. Consider the
statement issued by Facebook to me–after attempts to get it verbally failed,
due ironically to several dropped connections on the iPhone of the exec I
spoke to: “Facebook believes in connecting people with their interests and
we’ve partnered with innovative developers around the world who share this
vision. Facebook and Apple have cooperated successfully in the past to offer
people great social experiences and we look forward to doing so in the
future.” In other words: Zing, Ping. UPDATE: Oddly enough, a Facebook
connection feature appeared to be in Ping when some signed up–not for me–as
noted by Cult of Mac. And Silicon Alley Insider’s Dan Frommer even spotted the
wording in Jobs’s stage presentation. I have an email into Apple PR asking for
a comment on the change. In any case, at the Apple event, Jobs told me he had
great hopes for the social music service, adding that Ping could be the most
significant thing to come out of yesterday’s announcements. But soon enough he
moved right on to the new iPods, declaring enthusiastically: “Isn’t the nano
amazing?” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100902/steve-jobs-on-why-facebook-is-
not-part-of-apples-new-ping-music-social-network-onerous-terms/feed/ 48 Indian
Firms Shift Focus to the Poor http://allthingsd.com/20091020/indian-firms-
shift-focus-to-the-poor/ http://allthingsd.com/20091020/indian-firms-shift-
focus-to-the-poor/#comments Tue, 20 Oct 2009 20:50:48 +0000
http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=16822 Indian companies, long dependent on
hand-me-down technology from developed nations, are becoming cutting-edge
innovators as they target one of the world’s last untapped markets: the poor.
India’s many engineers, whose best-known role is to help Western companies
expand or cut costs, are now turning their attention to the purchasing
potential of the nation’s own 1.1-billion population. The trend that surfaced
when Tata Motors’ tiny $2,200 car, the Nano, hit Indian roads in July, has
resulted in a slew of new products for people with little money who aspire to
a taste of a better life. Many products aren’t just cheaper versions of well-
established models available in the West but have taken design and
manufacturing assumptions honed in the developed world and turned them on
their heads. Read the rest of thus post on the original site ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20091020/indian-firms-shift-focus-to-the-poor/feed/ 0
Apple's iTunes 9 Makes it Easier to Share, Organize
http://allthingsd.com/20090916/apples-itunes-9-makes-it-easier-to-share-
organize/ http://allthingsd.com/20090916/apples-itunes-9-makes-it-easier-to-
share-organize/#comments Thu, 17 Sep 2009 01:04:03 +0000
http://ptech.allthingsd.com/20090916/apples-itunes-9-makes-it-easier-to-share-
organize/ Apple’s iTunes program is one of the most popular software products
in the world. The company says hundreds of millions of copies of iTunes have
been downloaded, far exceeding the 220 million iPod music players it has sold.
That’s because many people use iTunes to organize, play and buy music and
videos on their computers, or to burn music CDs, even if they don’t own iPods
or iPhones. Ironically, the vast majority of iTunes copies are on Windows PCs,
not Apple’s own Macintosh computers, because Windows machines are much more
numerous. Last week, Apple released its ninth major version of iTunes — which
first came out in January, 2001, before the iPod even existed — and I’ve been
testing it. This release is the biggest overhaul of the familiar program in
recent years, with improvements in the look and functionality of each of the
software’s three main portions: the media jukebox, the built-in store and the
synchronization features that move media and applications to and from iPods
and iPhones. In my tests, performed on multiple Windows PCs and Macs, iTunes 9
worked as advertised, and I found it to be less cluttered, more intelligent
and easier to use than the prior version. It synced music and videos properly
for me using both an iPod Nano and an iPhone. It’s available as a free
download at apple.com/itunes. To me, the two biggest new features in iTunes 9
are something called Home Sharing and a new, easier way to organize the apps
on an iPhone or iPod Touch. For years, iTunes users have been able to
wirelessly stream music from nearby computers running iTunes whose owners
chose to share their music. But Home Sharing takes this one step further,
allowing users to actually copy the song files from one computer to another.
Right inside iTunes, you can simply peer into the shared library on another
computer set up to allow this, and then select the song you want and drag it
into your own library. It doesn’t delete the original from the other computer.
In my tests, this worked perfectly with music, as well as TV shows, movies and
audiobooks, and it worked between any combination of my PCs and Macs. You can
even configure Home Sharing to automatically transfer to your library new
media purchased on another shared computer. But Home Sharing has limitations.
It only works with a maximum of five computers. These computers must be on the
same local network, not connected over the Internet. And they must be the same
computers authorized to play copy-protected media you buy from Apple. With
75,000 apps available for the iPhone and iPod Touch, it has been easy to
download so many that your device becomes cluttered, with numerous icons
scattered among numerous screens in a manner that isn’t optimal. There’s a way
to move them around, or delete them, right on the device, but it’s clumsy,
partly because you can’t see all the screens at once, and partly because it’s
difficult to move an icon from a location on one screen to another location
several screens away. The new iTunes lets you organize your iPhone's screen
right on your computer Now, in the new iTunes 9, when you plug in your device,
the software displays an exact visual representation of your iPhone or Touch
screens right on your computer, and allows you to rearrange them with your
mouse. When you disconnect, the new arrangement is retained on the phone. It
worked fine for me. In iTunes 9, you also can create up to 12 automated
“Genius Mixes” from your personal music library — essentially personal radio
stations consisting of songs iTunes considers to be related, that play on and
on. I enjoyed this feature, and found it generally made good choices. There
are also a number of small visual improvements throughout the program. In the
jukebox, for instance, you can now locate all songs by a particular artist
using a Column Browser — an optional left-hand column that lists the artists.
In the store, categories like music, movies and TV shows are now arrayed
across the top, with drop-down menus for genres. The store also is generally
better organized, with richer graphics, more white space and easier
navigation. A small touch of social networking, not exactly Apple’s historic
strength, has been added to iTunes. From inside the store, you can post a link
to a favorite title to either Facebook or Twitter, though this of course
serves Apple by encouraging others to buy the title. You can now buy special
albums, called “iTunes LPs,” that attempt to replicate the experience of old
vinyl albums by including lots of extra material. For instance, for one such
title by the Doors, iTunes delivered to me liner notes, digital scans of old
posters and set lists, plus photos and video interviews. Another, called
Mayhem, by the singer/actor Tyrese Gibson, includes just one song, but also a
vivid digital comic book with voiced dialogue. However, these iTunes LPs take
up a lot of space on your hard disk — about half a gigabyte each for the ones
I tried. Overall, iTunes 9 is a nice improvement on a much-used program. Find
all of Walt Mossberg’s columns and videos online, free, at the All Things
Digital Web site, walt.allthingsd.com. Email him at mossberg@wsj.com. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090916/apples-itunes-9-makes-it-easier-to-share-
organize/feed/ 0 NPD: Mac Sales Up Seven Percent, iPod Sales Down 16 Percent
http://allthingsd.com/20090914/munsternpd/
http://allthingsd.com/20090914/munsternpd/#comments Mon, 14 Sep 2009 20:15:37
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=24700 Apple’s September quarter is
shaping up to be a good one, if the latest metrics from NPD as reported by
Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster are any indication. According to the
research outfit, Mac sales for July and August are up seven percent year-over-
year. If this proves true, Apple (AAPL) should sell somewhere around 2.75 and
2.8 million Macs in the quarter, which would match or slightly exceed Wall
Street consensus estimates. IPod sales should meet estimates as well, though
NPD reports that year-over-year sales during July and August were down 16
percent. Munster figures Apple will sell 9.5 million to 10.5 million iPods for
the quarter. The Street is looking for 10 million, and with the launch of the
newest nano, Apple will likely meet this goal. “We are expecting
reacceleration in the final month of the quarter given the new iPod nanos that
shipped on 9/9,” Munster explained. “Also, iPod international is growing
faster than domestic. In other words, we believe the actual reported numbers
for iPod will be slightly better than NPD would suggest.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090914/munsternpd/feed/ 0 Weekend Update:
9.12.2009–Now in Eight Shiny New Colors
http://allthingsd.com/20090912/weekend-update-9-12-2009%e2%80%94-now-in-eight-
shiny-new-colors/ http://allthingsd.com/20090912/weekend-
update-9-12-2009%e2%80%94-now-in-eight-shiny-new-colors/#comments Sat, 12 Sep
2009 19:20:43 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=24610 While the
highlight of the week was undoubtedly Apple’s Rock and Roll event on Wednesday
featuring Steve Jobs 2.0, that was only the anodized aluminum, candy-colored,
video-shooting cherry on top of another week of tech sector reporting from All
Things Digital. BoomTown was abuzz with Pixis, Plums and power this week as
Kara focused on tech that wasn’t Apple, and reminded us that lady geeks hold
the power in Silicon Valley. While Apple was gathering clouds for its Rock and
Roll storm, Palm (PALM) released the teeny Pixi, designed, Palm hopes, to
steal some of that Apple (AAPL) thunder. The Pixi smart phone, while smaller
and thinner, reported Kara, has fewer features and less power than the already
available Pre. Small can be good in the world of tech, and BoomTown reported
that a certain Nordic tech behemoth thinks so too. Nokia (NOK) announced that
it had acquired “microsocial networking” start-up Plum, whose signature
offering allows users to build smaller, more intimate electronic social
networks. Kara did it “like a boss” this week and highlighted the tech sector
mavens from Fortune magazine’s annual list of most powerful women. Ursula
Burns of Xerox (XRX), IBM-er (IBM) Ginni Rometty and Oracle (ORCL) President
Safra Catz were among those at the top. BoomTown will be at the upcoming
conference associated with the Fortune list, so look for Kara’s Flip video
interviews with these Titanias of tech. It was nice of Apple to release new
iPods just in time for John’s birthday this week, and Digital Daily returned
the favor with high-bandwidth, hard-rockin’ coverage of Apple’s music-themed
event, complete with live photos and blogging. John liked the video feature of
the new iPod nano, but focused on the biggest news of the week–Apple’s
upgraded CEO. Digital Daily’s Apple coverage didn’t stop at The Steve. Ever
since announcement of the exclusive Apple-AT&T; (T) partnership, current and
would-be iPhone freaks have speculated as to what kind of deal will be struck
when that contract expires. John reported that iSuppli prognosticators think
the agreement may be extended when it runs out in 2010. John closed out the
week with Twitter leaks about the newest incarnation of Microsoft’s (MSFT)
Google-toppler (GOOG), Bing. Microsoft showcased Bing 2.0 at the annual
company meeting, which some employees took as a green light to tweet away
about the unreleased product. Microsoft HQ was more tight-lipped, telling John
only that the rollout would happen over the next few months. MediaMemo
followed the money this week–specifically advertising dollars. A year after
the Lehman collapse, Peter cited a MediaPost survey that showed some growth in
ad spending. In a down market, Peter reminded, sometimes the only place to go,
is up. Let’s hope so. Not to be left out of Apple’s party, MediaMemo covered
the release of an iPhone app from RealNetworks (RNWK) that brings all-you-can-
eat music for a monthly fee. Wall Street barely blinked at the deal, but
changes may come if the service catches on as competitor Spotify has in
Europe. And while the NFL won’t let players tweet from the end zone, it is
upping its tech quotient by bringing blacked-out games to your Internet
browser. MediaMemo reported that the lower-attendance games would be available
to tech-savvy sports nuts–after midnight on game day. Get out the Fritos and
espresso, guys, its game time. True to form as the Lincoln of our very own Mt.
Techmore, Walt’s address this week was aimed at helping the wayward get back
on track with a bevy of new iPhone navigation apps. This new breed of high
dollar apps harnesses the power of the iPhone 3GS to replace those ever
present dash top GPS navigation units. Walt extended his techno-presidential
benevolence with another installment of Mossberg’s Mailbox. Networked storage,
Quicken for Mac and the ominously impending switch to Windows 7 were all up
for discussion. At the Mossberg Solution, Katie tested Postbox, software
designed to bring novel management solutions to your inbox. Developed by some
of the guys from Mozilla, Postbox does offer lots of great features, Katie
said, even if the switch to the new tools might not be easy for all. Lots more
shiny new tech talk next week. Stay tuned. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090912/weekend-update-9-12-2009%e2%80%94-now-in-eight-
shiny-new-colors/feed/ 0 High Point of Apple Event: Upgraded CEO
http://allthingsd.com/20090910/qotd-189/
http://allthingsd.com/20090910/qotd-189/#comments Thu, 10 Sep 2009 12:10:53
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=24454 After nearly a year out of
the public eye, Apple CEO Steve Jobs returned to it yesterday at the company’s
annual music event. It was his first public appearance at an Apple gathering
since Oct. 14, 2008, when he uncrated the company’s new unibody MacBooks, and
it far overshadowed the new products he was about to announce. In fact, it
could be argued that public confirmation of Jobs’s health since his return to
the company was truly the most significant announcement of the day. As Morgan
Keegan analyst Tavis McCourt quipped in a research note issued after the
event, “Aside from a lack of a camera on the iPod Touch, everything announced
was generally in line with expectations, although it all tends to sound much
more revolutionary when Steve Jobs is spinning the story. It was clearly a
positive to see him back on stage.” Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster felt
similarly: “There was some debate over whether Steve Jobs would deliver the
presentation at [the] event,” he said in a note to clients. “He did, and we
see this as a sign that he has returned to work at near-full capacity
following his health-related leave of absence. We continue to believe he is
the primary spokesman and active leader of Apple.” Munster went on to note
that the event was otherwise a bit of a disappointment. Certainly, the lack of
a new iPod touch with a built-in video camera, which was viewed by many as
almost a sure thing, was a bit of a letdown. “We were expecting a new iPod
touch model with a video camera, which Apple did not announce,” Munster said.
“The lack of a camera may be due to last-minute quality issues, or it may also
be a strategic decision to differentiate the nano from the touch, and the
touch from the iPhone. Ultimately we see the lack of a camera in the touch as
a move to push users toward the iPhone and drive purchases of multiple devices
per customer by segmenting the product lines.” Or to position the iPod touch
as a truly competitive portable gaming device. Certainly, that’s what appeared
to be going on yesterday as Apple (AAPL) brought out Ubisoft, Tapulous,
Gameloft, and Electronic Arts (ERTS) in quick succession to demo their
upcoming new games. And then, there were the data points. Consider these: 20
million iPod touches sold to date Over 100 million iTunes accounts Over 1.8
billion apps downloaded to date. Impressive given that Apple passed one
billion apps downloaded just last April Over 75,000 apps available 21,000 of
those 75,000 are games and entertainment apps So nearly one third of all
iPhone OS apps sold to date are games and entertainment apps. Clearly, Jobs
was on to something when he told The Wall Street Journal in November 2008, “I
think the iPhone and iPod touch may emerge as really viable devices in the
mobile games market.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20090910/qotd-189/feed/ 3
"Hummer of Cellphones" a Bestseller at AT&T;
http://allthingsd.com/20090908/hummer-of-cellphones-a-best-seller-at-att/
http://allthingsd.com/20090908/hummer-of-cellphones-a-best-seller-at-
att/#comments Tue, 08 Sep 2009 15:15:13 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=24199 Apple’s iPhone continues to be
AT&T;’s marquee handset, though the data-guzzling “Hummer of cellphones,” as
the New York Times has dubbed it, has inspired widespread customer
dissatisfaction with the carrier’s network. Indeed, according to Piper
Jaffray, the iPhone 3G and 3GS are AT&T;’s (T) top-selling phones. “Based on
our channel checks, the iPhone remains the best selling device at AT&T; with
both the new $200/$300 iPhone 3GS and $100 legacy iPhone selling very well,”
Piper Jaffary analyst Gene Munster said in a research note today. “In July,
our checks had indicated store managers were strongly recommending the legacy
iPhone,” Munster notes, “as we believe this was partially driven by store
representatives hoping to make the sale with the 3GS stocked out combined with
efforts to reduce existing inventory levels of the legacy iPhone. However, in
August, our checks indicate store managers are increasingly recommending the
3GS, and we believe this is driven by improved availability of the 3GS at most
AT&T; stores.” Munster summarizes: “Overall, the iPhone remains the best
selling device and our August checks indicate the iPhone took share from
BlackBerry, the Nokia E71x, and most other competitor products. Finally, in
our checks at Best Buy, store managers indicated the iPhone was their best
selling device with stores selling out of stock as soon as they received the
Apple smartphones.” A bullish assessment, with an even more bullish
conclusion: Munster says he expects Apple (AAPL) to ship seven million iPhones
in the quarter. If that’s truly the case, Apple should have no trouble beating
Wall Street’s expectations for its current quarter despite the gloomy economy.
One last point worth noting here: Munster is not bullish on Apple’s event
tomorrow. He describes it as a “non-event,” though he seems convinced Steve
Jobs will host it. “We expect Steve Jobs to introduce a new iPod lineup with a
new iPod touch, new nanos, and a new classic, with cameras in the new models,”
he notes. “We expect the stock to trade off on a lack of surprising
announcements.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20090908/hummer-of-cellphones-a-
best-seller-at-att/feed/ 1 And Lo, Jobs Appeared and Said "No, This Is the
Best iPod Ever," and It Was, and There Was Much Rejoicing
http://allthingsd.com/20090908/and-lo-jobs-appeared-and-said-no-this-is-the-
best-ipod-ever-and-it-was-and-there-was-much-rejoicing/
http://allthingsd.com/20090908/and-lo-jobs-appeared-and-said-no-this-is-the-
best-ipod-ever-and-it-was-and-there-was-much-rejoicing/#comments Tue, 08 Sep
2009 13:37:09 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=24186 When Steve
Jobs described the iPhone at D5 as “the best iPod we’ve ever made,” he set the
bar high for future iterations of the iconic device. Now, in the run-up to
tomorrow’s invitation-only Apple event, the question is: Will Apple (AAPL)
reach the bar? And with what? The answer, if the latest rumors prove true,
depends on your feelings about iPods with cameras. Because according to
reports, when Apple refreshes its iPod touch and iPod nano players, both will
feature cameras–the nano’s for still images, the touch’s for photos and video.
We may also see a new price point for entry-level touch models, one intended
to undermine Microsoft’s (MSFT) forthcoming multitouch Zune with HD display
and to really juice App Store sales. Perhaps the 16GB touch at $199 and the
8GB at $150. Beyond this, the event might also include the announcement of
iTunes 9, said to include some sort of social networking element; “Cocktail,”
a new music format that bundles full-length albums with art, video and other
bells and whistles; and perhaps even Blu-ray support (no Beatles, though). And
after that? Well, it’s tough to say. Apple’s never an easy read when it comes
to product announcements, even when there’s evidence floating around that
would seem to suggest otherwise. So join us tomorrow for live coverage of
Apple’s event to see if the above rumors prove true or if Apple’s got
something else entirely up its sleeve. The event kicks off at 10 am PDT. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090908/and-lo-jobs-appeared-and-said-no-this-is-the-
best-ipod-ever-and-it-was-and-there-was-much-rejoicing/feed/ 3 Here It Comes.
But What Is It, Exactly? Apple Plans Keynote Event for September.
http://allthingsd.com/20090813/here-it-comes-but-what-is-it-exactly-apple-
plans-keynote-event-for-september/ http://allthingsd.com/20090813/here-it-
comes-but-what-is-it-exactly-apple-plans-keynote-event-for-september/#comments
Thu, 13 Aug 2009 16:28:09 +0000 http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=9891 Time
to get the rumor mill kicked into high gear: Multiple music industry sources
say Apple executives have told them the company is planning one of its famed
keynote events for the week of Sept. 7. But in true Apple fashion, the company
has been noncommittal about the exact date of the event and what it will be
showing off. I’ve asked Apple for comment and will report back if the company
responds. But the timing makes sense and shouldn’t come as a surprise since
Apple (AAPL) has traditionally used the week following Labor Day to show off
new products and refresh existing product lines. Two years ago, for instance,
Apple introduced the iPod touch, which has since become a key part of the
company’s arsenal. Last year, the event featured less substantial changes,
like an overhaul of the iPod Nano. Given that Apple has tipped off music
industry executives, it’s a fair bet that the event will incorporate music in
some way. Perhaps it will show off the new “Cocktail” format that Apple has
been working on, which bundles full-length albums with other goodies like
album covers and interactive bells and whistles. But unless Apple unveils its
so-called iTablet, a touchscreen device that’s supposed to be a cross between
an iPhone and a full-fledged MacBook laptop computer, there are going to be a
lot of disappointed Apple acolytes. The other big appearance the Apple
faithful will be looking for will be Apple CEO Steve Jobs, who hasn’t made an
official public appearance since a keynote presentation last October. During
Apple’s September 2008 keynote, Jobs took time to dismiss reports that he was
in failing health. But in January, Jobs said a “hormone imbalance” required
him to step away from day-to-day leadership at the company, and news later
surfaced that Jobs had undergone a liver transplant last spring. He’s been
officially back at work since late June. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090813/here-it-comes-but-what-is-it-exactly-apple-
plans-keynote-event-for-september/feed/ 0 Best of Digital Daily
http://allthingsd.com/20090413/2008-the-year-in-wisecracks/
http://allthingsd.com/20090413/2008-the-year-in-wisecracks/#comments Mon, 13
Apr 2009 07:00:06 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=10192 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090413/2008-the-year-in-wisecracks/feed/ 1 MySpace
Boots Pervs http://allthingsd.com/20090204/myspace-boots-pervs/
http://allthingsd.com/20090204/myspace-boots-pervs/#comments Wed, 04 Feb 2009
22:27:54 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=12538 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090204/myspace-boots-pervs/feed/ 0 Macworld '09:
Behind the PhilNote http://allthingsd.com/20090107/macworld-09-behind-the-
philnote/ http://allthingsd.com/20090107/macworld-09-behind-the-
philnote/#comments Wed, 07 Jan 2009 19:00:19 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=10848 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20090107/macworld-09-behind-the-philnote/feed/ 0
BoomTown Decodes the Apple Dumps Macworld Press Release (The "Yes, Virginia"
Version) http://allthingsd.com/20081217/boomtown-decodes-the-apple-dumps-
macworld-press-release-the-yes-virginia-version/
http://allthingsd.com/20081217/boomtown-decodes-the-apple-dumps-macworld-
press-release-the-yes-virginia-version/#comments Wed, 17 Dec 2008 08:00:37
+0000 http://kara.allthingsd.com/?p=7751 BoomTown extends apologies to the
late Francis P. Church, who penned the original “Yes, Virginia, There Is a
Santa Claus” editorial in the New York Sun on Sept. 21, 1897. But with just a
little rejiggering, his eloquent words work perfectly as a translation for
Apple’s press release about its withdrawal from San Francisco’s Macworld and
no keynote speech from Apple CEO Steve Jobs yesterday, which doubtlessly shook
the Apple (AAPL) faithful to the core. Oddly enough, it matches up
surprisingly–and a little disturbingly–well. Thus, here’s a little holiday
inspiration to help those poor souls make it through these darkest of days:
Dear Editor: I am 28 years old. Some of my little fanboys say there is no
Steve Jobs at Macworld. My imaginary friend at AppleInsider says, ‘If you see
it on BoomTown, it’s so.’ Please tell me the truth, is there a Steve Jobs?
–O’Hanlon, a geek in Virginia” Apple wrote: CUPERTINO, California—December 16,
2008—Apple today announced that this year is the last year the company will
exhibit at Macworld Expo. Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of
Worldwide Product Marketing, will deliver the opening keynote for this year’s
Macworld Conference & Expo, and it will be Apple’s last keynote at the show.
The keynote address will be held at Moscone West on Tuesday, January 6, 2009
at 9:00 a.m. Macworld will be held at San Francisco’s Moscone Center January
5-9, 2009. Translation: Virginia geek, your little friends are wrong (and they
also have no life, which is self-evident). They have been affected by the
skepticism of a skeptical age. They do not believe except they see. They think
that nothing can be which is not comprehensible by their little minds. All
minds, Virginia geek, whether they be men’s or children’s, are little. Not as
elegantly tiny as the iPod Nano, but little nonetheless. In this great
universe of ours, man is a mere insect, an ant, in his intellect as compared
with the boundless world about him, as measured by the intelligence capable of
grasping the whole of truth and knowledge. Apple wrote: Apple is reaching more
people in more ways than ever before, so like many companies, trade shows have
become a very minor part of how Apple reaches its customers. The increasing
popularity of Apple’s Retail Stores, which more than 3.5 million people visit
every week, and the Apple.com website enable Apple to directly reach more than
a hundred million customers around the world in innovative new ways.
Translation: Yes, Virginia geek, there is a Steve Jobs. He exists as certainly
as love and generosity and devotion and the fabled touchscreen tablet Mac
exist, and you know that they abound and give to your life its highest beauty
and joy. Alas! how dreary would be the world if there were no Steve Jobs! It
would be as dreary as if there were no amazingly great iPhones. There would be
no childlike faith then, no poetry, no romance, no Pull My Finger app to make
tolerable this existence. We should have no enjoyment, except in sense and
sight. The eternal light with which childhood fills the world would be
extinguished. Apple wrote: Apple has been steadily scaling back on trade shows
in recent years, including NAB, Macworld New York, Macworld Tokyo and Apple
Expo in Paris. Translation: Not believe in Steve Jobs! You might as well not
believe in those admittedly freaky iPod shadow dancers. You might get your
other pretend friend at MacRumors to hire men to watch in all the Chinese
manufacturing factories on Christmas eve to catch Steve Jobs, but even if you
did not see Steve Jobs ordering up new Mini desktop computers, what would that
prove? Nobody sees Steve Jobs, but that is no sign that there is no Steve
Jobs. The most real things in the world are those that neither children nor
men can see. Did you ever see the iPod dancers dancing bizarrely on the lawn?
Of course not, but that’s no proof that they are not there. Nobody can
conceive or imagine all the wonders there are unseen and unseeable in the
world. Apple wrote: Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the
1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with
the Macintosh. Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with
its award-winning computers, OS X operating system and iLife and professional
applications. Translation: You tear apart the baby’s rattle and see what makes
the noise inside, but there is a veil covering the unseen world which not the
strongest man, nor even the united strength of all the strongest men that ever
lived could tear apart. Only faith, poetry, love, romance, and the fact that
the Mac guy vs. PC guy ads are pure genius can push aside that curtain and
view and picture the supernal beauty and glory beyond. Is it all real? Ah,
Virginia geek, in all this world there is nothing else real and abiding. Apple
wrote: Apple is also spearheading the digital media revolution with its iPod
portable music and video players and iTunes online store, and has entered the
mobile phone market with its revolutionary iPhone. Translation: No Steve Jobs!
Thank God! he lives and lives forever, despite Henry Blodget-fueled health
rumors to the contrary. A thousand years from now, Virginia geek, nay 10 times
10,000 years from now, he will continue to make glad the heart of Mac
fanboyhood. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20081217/boomtown-decodes-the-apple-
dumps-macworld-press-release-the-yes-virginia-version/feed/ 1 Fresh
'Discoveries' from iPod, Zune http://allthingsd.com/20080916/fresh-
discoveries-from-ipod-zune/ http://allthingsd.com/20080916/fresh-discoveries-
from-ipod-zune/#comments Wed, 17 Sep 2008 01:16:02 +0000
http://solution.allthingsd.com/20080916/fresh-discoveries-from-ipod-zune/ Amid
a speech by its CEO and a musical performance, Apple last week unveiled a new
version of its iTunes software and some new iPods. Meanwhile, Microsoft‘s Zune
announced via press release that new players in different capacities and
colors would be available this week, along with a software update. Despite
their different approaches, these two announcements shared a notable common
thread: integrated music discovery. Each company’s new software features ways
for users to find automatically generated suggestions of music they might
like, the way Pandora Media Inc.’s popular personalized music lists do. Of
course, music discovery also encourages users to buy more. Apple’s new iPods
include a thinner Nano with an accelerometer, which senses the direction a
screen is being held in a user’s hands and flips the display horizontally or
vertically. These Nanos come in eight- or 16-gigabyte versions for $149 or
$199 and are available in nine bright colors. A new, thinner iPod Touch with a
built-in speaker was also unveiled, and it comes in eight-, 16- or 32-gigabyte
versions for $229, $299 or $399. Microsoft’s two new Zune players come in 16-
and 120-gigabyte capacities for $200 and $250, respectively. All Zunes have
built-in FM tuners and wireless capability, but the new upgrade allows users
to buy and download songs they hear on their Zunes’ radios via Wi-Fi, when
available. While Apple’s iPod has been a snowballing success for the company,
its companion iTunes software is no slouch. To date, 65 million iTunes store
accounts with associated credit cards have been set up on Macs and Windows
PCs. But iTunes has always been weak on music discovery and community. Apple
(AAPL) calls iTunes 8’s ability to make smart music recommendations the
“Genius” feature. The tool can automatically do two things after analyzing a
selected song from your music library. First, it can generate a playlist of
songs from tunes you own. Second, it can generate a list of songs you don’t
own but might want to buy from the iTunes store. MicrosoftZune’s Mixview
feature displays content related to an artist with an explanation of the
relationship. Microsoft’s Zune software discovers and recommends music using
categories called “Picks,” “Channels” and “Mixview.” The last of the three,
Mixview, generates recommendations for other musicians and albums, as well as
other Zune users with whom you might like to connect. The suggestions are
based on the artist of the song you’re playing and are displayed in an
interactive graphic that explains how each is linked — for instance, if your
artist was influenced by a band or if a member of Zune’s social network is a
top listener of the artist you’re playing. After using the music-discovery
software from Apple and Microsoft (MSFT), I felt like Apple’s Genius tool
still had a lot to learn, though the company says it will improve over time as
more people start using it. Zune’s software had some similar issues, but it
offered recommendations in a richer, more engaging manner, encouraging me to
keep digging around and learn more about my music. Though I didn’t happen to
have as much time to use Zune’s software as I did Apple’s Genius, I got more
out of my Zune experience. Apple offers much more content at its iTunes store
than Zune. In all categories, iTunes takes the lead: in songs, 8.5 million
songs to Zune’s 4 million; in music videos, 10,000 versus 8,500; in television
episodes, 30,000 versus 3,000; and in audio and video podcasts, 125,000 versus
6,000. To analyze and learn from your music, Apple scans the contents of your
music library, which may raise privacy concerns for some people. Apple says
that the information it collects is completely anonymous, and that it does not
and will not associate this information on its servers with you or your
account. Some of my Genius playlists were well-crafted, including songs that
meshed well with one another. But outliers cropped up, such as when “Should I
Stay or Should I Go” by the Clash was stuck in the middle of a list generated
from Coldplay’s gentler ballad, “Green Eyes.” Some songs won’t generate
playlists if you don’t have enough related songs in your library; this
happened to me with the pop hit “Apologize” by Timbaland, featuring
OneRepublic. Songs from artists whose content isn’t sold in iTunes, such as
The Beatles, won’t generate Genius lists, because Genius makes suggestions
based only on what it sells in its iTunes catalog. Genius will soon work with
songs beyond those sold in iTunes. Genius has a bigger problem. If you hit
“Play” in iTunes, a Genius sidebar appears to offer content related to a
selected song. But as play continues, Genius doesn’t continuously generate new
recommendations; instead, it’s stuck on the very first song that was selected
— which you might have chosen two hours ago. This means music discovery must
be a manual process, rather than an as-you-listen convenience. Genius
playlists can be made on a computer or iPod and sync back and forth. I synced
Genius lists on two iPod touches, but this didn’t work in one test with an
iPhone. Apple said it couldn’t replicate this problem and hadn’t had other
reports of it. Zune software never scans your music collection. Instead, it
knows only the number of times you played a song and how you may have rated a
song. Zune’s Mixview adds a real zing to the discovery process. It is a
kaleidoscope-like graphic that appears on the screen when a song, artist,
album or friend’s Zune Card is selected. The selected item is surrounded by
eight to 10 floating squares filled with graphics and text, each holding a
related song, album, artist or graphic representation of a Zune listener who’s
considered an “expert” on the selection. Each of these related squares
includes a line of text explaining its relationship to the center item. For
example, as I played “(I Can’t Get No) Satisfaction” by the Rolling Stones,
Cyril Davies appeared as a related artist; an image of Arthur Alexander
appeared as an influencer of the Stones; a Zune community member with the tag
“Rreynoso” appeared as the top listener for the band and other Stones albums
were displayed. Mixview changes as you explore it. When one of its
recommendations is selected, a new Mixview is created around that selection,
encouraging discovery. But Mixview has the same problem as Apple’s Genius:
When one song ends and another begins, the Mixview graphic doesn’t
automatically change; you must manually start Mixview for a new song. Zune
says it doesn’t want to change the graphic in case a user is in mid-
exploration. Unlike Genius, Mixview shows songs and artists beyond what Zune
sells online. But the company says Mixview does “favor” Zune content, and Zune
Picks are limited to items sold by Zune. Zune Picks and Channels are more
passive ways of discovering music: Picks are generated for you in Zune
Marketplace according to your listening habits. Zune Channels bring
collections of music to Zune devices and software, but these are useful only
for Zune Pass members who pay $15 monthly. Apple’s Genius is a helpful tool
when it comes to quickly making a playlist, and its iTunes sidebar might
reveal fresh related content. But the Zune software truly allows people to
discover more about their own music and that of others. Edited by Walter S.
Mossberg Email us at mossbergsolution@wsj.com. Find this and other columns and
videos online free at the All Things Digital Web site:
http://walt.allthingsd.com ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20080916/fresh-
discoveries-from-ipod-zune/feed/ 0 Steve Jobs: Alive and Kicking
http://allthingsd.com/20080910/steve-jobs-alive-and-kicking/
http://allthingsd.com/20080910/steve-jobs-alive-and-kicking/#comments Wed, 10
Sep 2008 18:00:38 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=4798 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20080910/steve-jobs-alive-and-kicking/feed/ 0 iTunes 8
to Feature Slide-Out Keyboard, Dual Batteries?
http://allthingsd.com/20080903/itunes-8-to-feature-slide-out-keyboard-dual-
batteries/ http://allthingsd.com/20080903/itunes-8-to-feature-slide-out-
keyboard-dual-batteries/#comments Wed, 03 Sep 2008 23:38:17 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=4399 The Apple rumor mill has such a
hair trigger, that even passing mention of an unreleased product can set it
into yammering motion. As happened today after Digg founder Kevin Rose offered
up some purported insider information about the focus of Apple’s “Let’s Rock”
media event in San Francisco next Tuesday. If Rose is correct–and his record
on handicapping Apple (AAPL) announcements is decidedly mixed–Apple will
announce updates to its entire iPod line, including the rumored “tall” iPod
Nano. Not exactly a tough call considering that XSKN is already selling cases
for them and purported photos of the device — like the one below — are showing
up on Alibaba. More interestingly though, Rose says that Apple will uncrate
iTunes 8, the first major overhaul of the software since iTunes 7 launched two
years ago. Rose claims that iTunes 8 will boast some significant enhancements,
among them HD-quality TV show downloads, a new “grid view” browsing feature
and a playlist recommendation engine called Genius. “iTunes 8 includes Genius,
which makes playlists from songs in your library that go great together,” Rose
writes. “Genius also includes Genius sidebar, which recommends music from the
iTunes Store that you don’t already have.” Notably absent from Rose’s list of
new features: iTunes Unlimited–the $129-a-year all-you-can-eat subscription
service that Apple has been rumored to be considering for some time now. Like
all such reports, Rose’s should be taken with a grain of salt, if not an
entire salt lick. Rose was, after all, the guy who erroneously claimed Apple’s
first iPhone would feature a slide-out keyboard, dual batteries and CDMA, and
GSM support. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20080903/itunes-8-to-feature-slide-out-
keyboard-dual-batteries/feed/ 3 A Million Here, a Million There–Pretty Soon
You're Talking About a Lot of iPhones http://allthingsd.com/20080626/iphone-
build-volumes/ http://allthingsd.com/20080626/iphone-build-volumes/#comments
Fri, 27 Jun 2008 00:42:19 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=2639
Apple’s oft-stated goal of selling 10 million iPhones in 2008 apparently
doesn’t mean that it hopes to sell 10 million phones within this calendar
year. Apparently, it means that it hopes to sell 15 million or more. Because
according to FBR Capital Market’s latest Apple (AAPL) supply-chain checks, the
company has substantially increased 2008 build volumes for the device. “Our
latest checks show forecasted calendar 3Q and 2008 iPhone build volumes have
been revised significantly higher, with more than 15 million 3G iPhones plus
two million old 2G iPhones forecast for 2008,” FBR Capital Market (FBCM)
analysts Craig Berger and Robert Pikover explained in a research note to
clients today. The two also noted that Apple’s raised build volumes for Macs
and iPods as well. “Recent checks show Apple’s 3Q notebook and desktop build
volumes were revised up by 10% and 20%, respectively, since our last check,”
they explained. “… Apple’s 3Q iPod build volumes were revised up by 15% since
our last check and are now set to grow 35% sequentially.” Interestingly,
Berger and Pikover suggest that some of that iPod volume may be in updated
iterations of the iconic device. “We hear a new, lower priced Nano may be
coming, as well as refreshed versions of the Touch and Classic,” they said.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20080626/iphone-build-volumes/feed/ 0 Our Sperm
Engine? It's a V8 -- 8 Flagella Mounted on the Crankcase
http://allthingsd.com/20080102/sperm-o-bot/
http://allthingsd.com/20080102/sperm-o-bot/#comments Wed, 02 Jan 2008 22:17:06
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/20080102/sperm-o-bot/ Here’s a rather
odd hybrid vehicle equally at place in the annals of science and science
fiction: a sperm-powered nanoscale robot. Scientists at Cornell University’s
Baker Institute for Animal Health have nearly managed to reproduce (no pun
intended) the minute biological engine that powers a sperm’s flagellum. That
engine runs on a high-energy molecule called adenosine triphosphate, or ATP,
which sperm create via a metabolic process known as glycolysis. Now,
glycolysis requires 10 enzymes attached in the proper sequence to occur in the
body. What the Cornell scientists hope to do is make it occur on a tiny gold
chip covered with nickel ions. So far, they have attached three of the 10
enzymes to do that. If they’re able to attach the remaining seven, that little
gold chip should generate enough ATP to power a nanodevice. Should that occur,
their achievement could usher in a new era of smart in-body medical devices
that use blood glucose as fuel. Said Dr. Erkki Ruoslahti, a nanotechnology
researcher at the Burnham Institute for Medical Research in La Jolla, Calif.,
“Having some sort of way of being able to power nanodevices is the No. 1
bottleneck in constructing really clever devices.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20080102/sperm-o-bot/feed/ 0 Rumor: Apple Developing
'Atkins Approved' MacBook http://allthingsd.com/20070921/macbook-slim-rumors/
http://allthingsd.com/20070921/macbook-slim-rumors/#comments Fri, 21 Sep 2007
16:09:22 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/20070921/macbook-slim-
rumors/ Apple gave us a “fat” Nano. Who’s to say it won’t give us that long-
rumored “thin” MacBook as well? Macworld San Francisco is still quite a ways
off, but the Mac rumor mill is gearing up already. 9to5Mac, which correctly
predicted the recent iPod Nano redesign, says Apple may be prepping a new,
slimmer line of MacBooks. The rumored machines reportedly feature black-
aluminum and silver-aluminum enclosures and a “strange” touchpad, and are
slimmer than current MacBook Pros. Slim enough to require one of those bottom-
mounted optical disk drives? We’ll have to wait for the follow-up rumors to
find out. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20070921/macbook-slim-rumors/feed/ 0
Apple's iPod Touch Is a Beauty of a Player Short on Battery Life
http://allthingsd.com/20070920/apples-ipod-touch-is-a-beauty-of-a-player-
short-on-battery-life/ http://allthingsd.com/20070920/apples-ipod-touch-is-a-
beauty-of-a-player-short-on-battery-life/#comments Thu, 20 Sep 2007 00:01:00
+0000 http://ptech.allthingsd.com/20070920/apples-ipod-touch-is-a-beauty-of-a-
player-short-on-battery-life/ In the hyper-competitive world of consumer
electronics, it’s highly unusual for one branded product to dominate its
market for years on end. Yet, that’s what Apple‘s iPod media player, now
approaching its sixth anniversary, has managed to do. One reason is that it
has been reinvented continuously. The latest iPod reinvention expands the line
from three models to four, priced from $79 to $399, with capacities ranging
from one gigabyte (roughly 240 songs) to 160 gigabytes (up to 40,000 songs.)
And that doesn’t count the iPhone, Apple’s much-hyped cellphone, which also
includes a full-blown iPod. I’ve been testing the newest member of the iPod
family, the big-screen iPod Touch. It’s a close cousin to the iPhone that
connects to the Internet via Wi-Fi wireless networking and replaces the famous
iPod click wheel with a touch screen. It starts at $299, $100 less than the
iPhone but with the same eight-gigabyte capacity. There’s also a 16-gigabyte
iPod Touch for $399. Like earlier iPods, the Touch is elegant and capable, and
works smoothly with Apple’s free iTunes software for Windows and Macintosh
PCs, as well as with its computer-based online iTunes Store, which sells far
more downloaded songs and TV shows than any other legal outlet. Not only that,
but the Touch introduces a mobile version of the iTunes store. It’s called the
iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store, and it allows you to buy, right on the iPod, any of
six million songs for the same price you’d pay on a computer. This portable
store will soon be made available on the iPhone as well. For all its beauty
and functionality, the Touch has some quirks and downsides. It’s the first
iPod model I’ve ever tested that fell significantly short, in my tests, of
Apple’s battery-life claims. It’s also the first iPod that lacks any physical
buttons for controlling music playback. The Touch looks, at first glance, like
an iPhone that can’t make phone calls. It’s a handsome, thin, black rectangle
with a huge 3.5-inch screen — the same size and resolution as the iPhone’s
gorgeous screen. But the Touch is even thinner, and a bit shorter. Like the
iPhone, the Touch has just one button on its face, a Home button, which takes
you to the main menu, a series of beautiful square icons. And, like the
iPhone, the Touch has an on/off button along the top edge. Most everything
else is controlled by Apple’s new “multitouch” touch screen interface, which
includes a virtual keyboard for text entry. But unlike the iPhone, the Touch
lacks volume-control buttons and a button on its earbuds for pausing or
skipping songs. So you have to play, pause and skip songs by touching the
screen. This is made easier by a feature the iPhone lacks (so far): If you
double-click the home button, music controls appear on the screen, even if the
screen is turned off. Still, you can’t control your Touch by touch when you’re
listening to music with the device in your pocket or purse. In my tests, music
and video playback went perfectly, and so did viewing photos. The Wi-Fi
functions, including the Web browser, a YouTube video viewer and the new
mobile store, also worked perfectly. The Touch is missing some Internet-
oriented features from the iPhone that would work well over Wi-Fi. It lacks
the iPhone’s email, mapping, stock tracking and weather programs. But its
keyboard has a feature the iPhone lacks: As on a BlackBerry, you can insert a
period by double-clicking the space bar. Apple says the Touch was meant mainly
to present typical iPod features, not to replicate the iPhone, and it included
the Web browser only so users could get onto Wi-Fi to use the mobile music
store in certain places that required a log-in screen. But it seems ridiculous
to me to sell a powerful device with Wi-Fi and a huge screen, and to leave out
things like an email program, even though you can use Web-based email
programs. I assume Apple was concerned that the less costly Touch might
compete too much with the iPhone if it had these features. In fact, if
somebody can jam a voice-over-Internet capability into the iPod Touch, it
might be more of a threat to the iPhone, which is tethered to a single
cellphone carrier, AT&T.; The company claims that the Touch can play music for
up to 22 hours and video for up to five hours on a single battery charge, even
with Wi-Fi turned on. But in my tests, using factory settings, music playback
lasted just under 17 hours and video playback lasted just over four hours.
Nearly every other iPod I’ve tested, including the new Nano, handily beat
Apple’s battery claims. Also, some early iPod Touch units have had defective
screens, where images appeared too dark. Apple says this problem affected a
small number of units and is being remedied. My two test units displayed
beautiful images. Despite these downsides, the Touch is a great media player,
and the iPod remains the best end-to-end portable solution for playing and
purchasing music and video. Email me at mossberg@wsj.com. Find all my columns
and videos online free at the new All Things Digital Web site,
http://walt.allthingsd.com. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20070920/apples-ipod-
touch-is-a-beauty-of-a-player-short-on-battery-life/feed/ 0 Mac Faithful
Stricken With Apple Rumor Seasonal Affective Disorder
http://allthingsd.com/20070829/apple-event/
http://allthingsd.com/20070829/apple-event/#comments Wed, 29 Aug 2007 11:50:51
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/20070829/apple-event/ Awakened from
its iPhone reverie by news of a special Sept. 5 Apple event called “The Beat
Goes On,” the Apple rumor mill has regrouped and is now churning out visions
of new OS X-based, touchscreen iPods and video Nanos. “We expect Apple will
enable video features on the Nano line for the first time, and the capacities
will likely range from 2GB to 8GB,” Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster wrote
in a research note published this morning. “The iPod may also be dramatically
improved. Though we are less certain of the specifications for the new sixth
generation iPod, it may closely resemble the iPhone (without calling
features). Specifically, we expect the sixth gen iPod to be a widescreen
device with multitouch technology. It may also have Wi-Fi capability and the
capacity could be as high as 160GB. Apple will likely raise the lowest iPod
price point back up to $299 (from $249). The fifth gen iPod is the longest-
lasting iPod model ever; it was released nearly two years ago and refreshed
with high capacities and a lower price last September.” Also making the rounds
are rumors that Sept. 5 will see The Beatles appearing on iTunes. Seems the
title Apple has chosen for the event–“The Beat Goes On”– also happens to be
the closing line of the band’s final press release. Spring is here and Leeds
play Chelsea tomorrow and Ringo and John and George and Paul are alive and
well and full of hope. The world is still spinning and so are we and so are
you. When the spinning stops – that’ll be the time to worry, not before. Until
then, the Beatles are alive and well and the beat goes on, the beat goes on.”
Coincidence? Who knows. As Apple 2.0’s Philip Elmer-DeWitt notes, it was Sonny
and Cher, not the Beatles, who made “The Beat Goes On” famous. That said,
Apple has been hinting at a deal to distribute the Fab Four’s music for some
time now. During the 2007 Macworld keynote address CEO Steve Jobs cued up the
song “Lovely Rita” from the Beatles’ “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band.”
Coincidence, or another of Apple’s marketing master strokes? Again, who knows.
At the time Apple dismissed Jobs’s selection of music as a matter of taste.
“Anyone can rip their own CD,” said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president for
iTunes. “Steve’s a huge Beatles fan–huge. He rips and burns.” A plausible
explanation, but one that could have just as easily been smoke and mirrors as
well. We’ll find out which on Sept. 5. UPDATE: Word on the street has it that
the Beatles will not play a role in next week’s announcement. Guess we’ll have
to make do with Sonny and Cher … ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20070829/apple-
event/feed/ 1 YouTube Educating Users About Copyright Law? Surely, You Can't
Be Serious … http://allthingsd.com/20070719/ddv20070719/
http://allthingsd.com/20070719/ddv20070719/#comments Thu, 19 Jul 2007 18:00:35
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/20070719/ddv20070719/ ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20070719/ddv20070719/feed/ 0 Xbox 360 'Big-Button Pad'
Now Available at Best Buy, Good Vibrations
http://allthingsd.com/20070711/ddv20070711/
http://allthingsd.com/20070711/ddv20070711/#comments Wed, 11 Jul 2007 18:00:09
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/20070711/ddv20070711/ ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20070711/ddv20070711/feed/ 3