Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Adaptive
featured in Nature magazine 04/05/2013 naturemagazine-04032013The April 11th
issue of Nature magazine featured an article highlighting the importance of
finding immunological markers for immunotherapy drugs and cell therapy
approaches for cancer. The article points out there’s a push to add an immune
component to standard tumour pathology evaluations and that technology from
companies like Adaptive can provide new methods. “…Adaptive Biotechnologies,
based in Seattle, Washington, uses intensive DNA sequencing of blood and
tissue samples to profile the changes in specialized receptors found in
populations of immune cells called T cells. These cells make the receptors by
shuffling variable regions of DNA in response to antigen exposure. Chief
executive Chad Robins says that the company hopes the assay will be sensitive
enough that blood samples alone could be used to monitor patients’ responses
to immuno­therapy. Demand for the technique has skyrocketed in the past year,
he says, as more and more companies seek to test its potential to guide
immunotherapy decisions.” Read full article» Previous Press Release Adaptive
featured in Nature Biotechnology 04/01/2013 Next Press Release Adaptive CEO
Robins speaks at Xconomy’s Biotech Conference 04/12/2013 Corporate/Research
(855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888) 522-8988 Immune Profiling PlatformPlatform
Overview Publications Products & ServicesLIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ®
CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ® Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy
Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular Therapy Antigen Map Biopharma
Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur Story Culture Careers News &
Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All Rights Reserved. Terms of
Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct
Patents & Trademarks Licenses