AllThingsD » bid http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000 en-US
hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 BlackBerry Co-Founder Cuts Stake to Under Five
Percent http://allthingsd.com/20131225/blackberry-co-founder-cuts-stake-to-
under-five-percent/ http://allthingsd.com/20131225/blackberry-co-founder-cuts-
stake-to-under-five-percent/#comments Wed, 25 Dec 2013 20:10:53 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381003 TORONTO — BlackBerry Ltd. co-founder Michael
Lazaridis disclosed in a regulatory filing Tuesday he cut his combined stake
with another company co-founder in the smartphone maker to just under five
percent, and indicated he doesn’t plan to pursue a joint bid to acquire the
company outright. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131225/blackberry-co-founder-cuts-stake-to-under-five-
percent/feed/ 0 Time Warner Cable's Bid for Hulu Is to Be Fourth Owner
http://allthingsd.com/20130708/time-warner-cables-bid-for-hulu-is-to-be-
fourth-owner/ http://allthingsd.com/20130708/time-warner-cables-bid-for-hulu-
is-to-be-fourth-owner/#comments Mon, 08 Jul 2013 21:57:51 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=339896 According to numerous sources close to the
situation, Time Warner Cable’s bid for Hulu is to be the fourth owner of the
premium video service. The other bidders for the service — which has noisily
been put on the block by its big media company owners, 21st Century Fox
(formerly News Corp.), Comcast and Disney — include: AT&T; in a joint bid with
former News Corp. COO Peter Chernin; Guggenheim Partners; and DirecTV. Sources
said that TWC would be a solution if there is a desire to hold onto the
property, with other bids hovering in the $1 billion range. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130708/time-warner-cables-bid-for-hulu-is-to-be-
fourth-owner/feed/ 0 Hulu Bids Depend on TV-Show Rights
http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-show-rights/
http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-show-rights/#comments
Sat, 06 Jul 2013 18:05:53 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=339565 The big media
companies that created Hulu endowed the online video provider with arguably
its most valuable asset: Access to the current seasons of hit network-TV
shows. Now, as an auction of the site enters its final stages, with bids due
Friday, the media-company owners are trying to strike a balance between
maintaining Hulu’s access to that programming while retaining their ability to
strike big-ticket licensing deals with others. Read the rest of this post on
the original site ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130706/hulu-bids-depend-on-tv-
show-rights/feed/ 0 A Real-Life Grand Old Party: Help Revive Y!PAC and It's
Cocktail Time With Yahoo's Mayer for Employees
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/a-real-life-grand-old-party-help-revive-ypac-
and-its-cocktail-time-with-yahoos-mayer-for-employees/
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/a-real-life-grand-old-party-help-revive-ypac-
and-its-cocktail-time-with-yahoos-mayer-for-employees/#comments Fri, 05 Jul
2013 17:00:54 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=338822 While it is not unusual
for a company in the Internet sector to solicit its employees to voluntarily
contribute to its political action committee, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer seems to
be putting a very Grand Old Party spin on it to turbocharge the efforts of its
lackluster Y!PAC. And by “party,” we mean the more fun kind, as well as the
political kind, offering — for those employees who join it and give over
$2,400 — a chance, along with 10 other Charlie-Bucket-golden-ticket winners,
to share a drink or two with Mayer at her place. “I am hosting a cocktail
reception at my home on Thursday, July 18 for every Yahoo that contributes
more than $2400 to Y!PAC and will randomly select 10 other people, who
contribute at any level, to join us,” wrote Mayer in an internal memo that I
was sent this week. “The reception will be both an opportunity to thank you
for your significant contribution and to learn more about our efforts on
Y!PAC.” A Yahoo spokesperson said that the memo was accurate: “Yahoo! engages
in the political process to promote and preserve a healthy technology
environment for our company, our users and the industry at large. One of the
ways eligible Yahoo! employees can directly participate in the public policy
process is by voluntarily contributing to our Yahoo! Political Action
Committee (PAC). To thank employees for their contributions and help them
learn more about our Yahoo! PAC efforts, Marissa will host an event for Yahoo!
employees who voluntarily contribute to the PAC at a variety of levels.” As I
noted, these PAC solicitations are common among companies with such
organizations — although higher-level managers are more typically targeted,
according to a number of other big tech outfits. While events that feature
politicians sometimes occur, other than some token offers, such as free movie
tickets or even a free Apple iPad, a CEO party as sweetening is not common.
Interestingly, Mayer seems to be borrowing from another playbook page of
Google’s, where she spent her entire career, previous to Yahoo. Sources said
the search giant has held special events with top execs, including with CEO
and co-founder Larry Page, as part of the enticement to join its PAC, although
a donation was not a requirement to attend (even if it was suggested). One
person with knowledge of the situation said that Y!PAC hasn’t been a big
priority at Yahoo over the years, which has had much less influence than other
tech players in Washington, D.C. Thus, Mayer is clearly trying to up the
stakes. She needs to. According to Federal Election Commission data, Google’s
NETPAC had total contributions of $483,656 from the beginning of the year
until May 31, and Microsoft PAC had $443,820. Yahoo, in comparison, has raised
only $18,043 in the same period. Multiple Yahoos I contacted, both current and
former, said that Y!PAC solicitations were not aggressive in the past,
happening annually, and largely aimed at top management and Yahoo’s board,
some of whom contributed. The low contribution number for Yahoo could be a
liability. According to multiple sources, politicians will always consider
what level of contribution they’ve received from one company’s PAC compared to
another and tend of focus on the big givers. And, given Yahoo’s longtime lack
of focus in the arena, it is unlikely most employees considered it a priority,
either. Not Mayer, who has personally been very politically active over the
years, including raising $112,400 for President Barack Obama’s recent
reelection, and $386,000 overall for him since 2007. Mayer has also been to
the nation’s capital several times since she was appointed to the top job at
Yahoo nearly a year ago, including a big CEO meeting with President Obama in
November (pictured below, courtesy of the White House). In addition, creative
social methods of raising money are not atypical for her. Someone just won
$90,000 bid to have lunch with Mayer in an online charity auction, with the
proceeds going to the Aspire East Palo Alto Charter School. Here’s the
internal memo on trying to up the game at Y!PAC: CONFIDENTIAL & PROPRIETARY —
DO NOT FORWARD Now more than ever, the Internet industry faces a number of
significant public policy challenges. Policy makers are debating major changes
to laws impacting immigration and privacy, cybersecurity, human rights, and
intellectual property protection. Their decisions affect Yahoo’s ability to
innovate, compete, and grow, and that is why I am asking you to learn about
and join Y!PAC, Yahoo!’s Political Action Committee. As a well-known
technology company, government officials seek our advice on public policy
issues impacting the Internet and economic growth. From being invited to D.C.
to share our perspective on the fiscal cliff and immigration reform, to
hearing from our Public Policy team at FYI about the need to engage with
lawmakers — educating candidates and elected officials is critical to our
users, partners, and communities. And, we need your help. By law, all funding
for Y!PAC contributions to federal candidates must come from Yahoos like you.
In turn, Y!PAC helps us educate and elect federal candidates of both political
parties who understand our industry and the public policy challenges facing
Yahoo! and other Internet businesses. I have personally contributed to Y!PAC
and while it is of course voluntary, I hope you will consider contributing.
I’m hosting a cocktail reception at my home on Thursday, July 18 for every
Yahoo that contributes more than $2400 to Y!PAC and will randomly select 10
other people, who contribute at any level, to join us. The reception will be
both an opportunity to thank you for your significant contribution and to
learn more about our efforts on Y!PAC. To learn more about Y!PAC and to join,
please visit the PAC website at yo/YPAC. Thanks, Marissa This communication is
intended for eligible employees only. Please do not forward. Contributions to
Yahoo! PAC are not tax deductible. Federal law requires that all contributors
be US Citizens or lawfully-admitted permanent residents. Federal law requires
Yahoo! PAC to use its best efforts to collect and report the name, mailing
address, occupation and name of employer of individuals whose contributions
exceed $200 per calendar year. You have the right to refuse to contribute
without reprisal. All contributions to the Yahoo! PAC are voluntary. Any
giving guidelines are merely suggestions. You are free to contribute more or
less than the guidelines given, or not at all. Yahoo! will not favor or
disadvantage you for the amount you give, or for not giving at all.
Contributions to Yahoo! PAC are for political purposes. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/a-real-life-grand-old-party-help-revive-ypac-
and-its-cocktail-time-with-yahoos-mayer-for-employees/feed/ 0 Silver Lake
Abandons Hulu Purchase Effort, as Final Bidding Deadline Arrives Today
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-lake-abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-
final-bidding-deadline-arrives-today/ http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-
lake-abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-final-bidding-deadline-arrives-
today/#comments Fri, 05 Jul 2013 15:36:17 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=339316 According to sources close to the situation,
Silver Lake will not make a follow-on bid to buy the Hulu premium video
service. The giant private equity firm had been allied in the effort with the
powerful Hollywood talent agency, WME, which it has invested in. The winnowing
of bidders should become clearer after today, which is the final deadline for
offers in what feels like the longest-running sale of an asset ever. Hulu is
owned by 21st Century Fox (formerly News Corp), Disney and Comcast. The trio
of media giants have had an uneasy relationship with each other and with the
service itself since it was launched many years ago. Thus it has been on the
block several times over the years, although this one has been the most
serious effort to resolve its fate. But sources have cautioned that it could
turn out that no sale happens if the bids do not come in at levels of about $1
billion. Until now, all of the bids have been nonbinding, with a range of
players all making various declarations of interest. Among the many tire-
kickers: Yahoo, DirecTV, Time Warner Cable, Guggenheim Partners, a joint bid
by the Chernin Group and AT&T;, as well as Silver Lake/WME. Silver Lake’s
departure from the main group is probably not a surprise, said sources, since
it did not sweeten its second bid as part of this process. That said,
depending on how the next and more serious round goes, it could later align
itself with one of the bidders left. In that, multiple sources now expect that
the multiplayer competition to buy Hulu will come down to four of those:
DirecTV, Guggenheim Partners, Time Warner Cable and the Chernin/AT&T; effort.
Each has pros and cons, of course, although DirecTV is considered the
frontrunner by many. Still, the situation is dicey, with worries focused on
issues such as the continuing departures of key management execs at Hulu. Most
problematic, though, are the various terms of the licensing rights for content
its owners are offering to whoever buys the service. A source at one bidder
called the terms “onerous,” while another said that the emergence of a number
of buyers for content has made it more difficult to build a big business at
Hulu going forward. Which, of course, begs the question of why they are
bidding at all. (Don’t you just love negotiation noise?) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130705/silver-lake-abandons-hulu-purchase-effort-as-
final-bidding-deadline-arrives-today/feed/ 0 Dish Network Withdraws Offer for
Clearwire http://allthingsd.com/20130626/dish-network-withdraws-offer-for-
clearwire/ http://allthingsd.com/20130626/dish-network-withdraws-offer-for-
clearwire/#comments Wed, 26 Jun 2013 20:30:26 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=336995 Dish Network CEO Charlie ErgenCharlie Ergen’s
Dish Network, which recently abandoned its effort to acquire third-place U.S.
wireless carrier Sprint to focus on its tender offer for Clearwire, has now
scrapped that pursuit as well. In a statement released moments ago, Dish said
it is withdrawing its $4.40 per share bid for Clearwire “as a result of the
recent change in recommendation by Clearwire.” That recommendation: A decision
by Clearwire’s board of directors to withdraw support for Dish’s bid and
endorse a competing $5-per-share offer from Sprint. Dish’s move to withdraw
its bid clears the way for Sprint to buy the roughly 50 percent of Clearwire
that it doesn’t already own, assuming Clearwire shareholders vote in favor of
such a move on July 8. And what’s next for Dish and Charlie Ergen? Hard to
say, though some speculate he’ll take a run at No. 4 wireless carrier T-Mobile
USA. Here’s the release: DISH Network Announces Withdrawal of Clearwire Tender
Offer ENGLEWOOD, Colo.– DISH Network Corporation (NASDAQ: DISH) today
announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, DISH Acquisition Holding
Corporation, is withdrawing its tender offer to acquire all of the outstanding
shares of Class A Common Stock of Clearwire Corporation (“Clearwire”),
including any shares of Class A Common Stock issued in respect of outstanding
shares of Class B Common Stock, for $4.40 per share. DISH’s tender offer
provided that it could be withdrawn, among other reasons, as a result of the
recent change in recommendation by Clearwire. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130626/dish-network-withdraws-offer-for-
clearwire/feed/ 0 Dish Drops Out of the Bidding for Sprint
http://allthingsd.com/20130618/dish-drops-out-of-the-bidding-for-sprint/
http://allthingsd.com/20130618/dish-drops-out-of-the-bidding-for-
sprint/#comments Tue, 18 Jun 2013 23:11:03 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=334486 Dish Network CEO Charlie ErgenDish Network
declined to submit a new bid for Sprint Nextel by the carrier’s deadline
tonight, leaving SoftBank as the wireless company’s lone suitor for the
moment. In a statement issued late Tuesday, Dish said that the “extreme deal
protections” included in Sprint’s revised acquisition agreement with SoftBank
made a counterbid impossible. Sprint’s behavior has “made it impracticable for
Dish to submit a revised offer by the June 18th deadline,” Dish said. “We will
consider our options with respect to Sprint” while focusing on a separate
offer for Clearwire. While Dish’s $25.5 billion bid for Sprint was greater in
size than SoftBank’s, the wireless company complained that it wasn’t final and
“actionable.” So it set tonight as a deadline for the satellite TV provider to
make it so by submitting a best, final offer. Evidently Dish simply couldn’t
get it together in time, or thought better of it given those extreme deal
protections mentioned earlier. Dish’s decision to end its pursuit of Sprint
clears the way for SoftBank to acquire the carrier. Sprint shareholders are
scheduled to vote on the Japanese company’s $21.6 billion takeover offer on
June 25. Dish’s full statement below. “While Dish continues to see strategic
value in a merger with Sprint, the decisions made by Sprint to prematurely
terminate our due diligence process and accept extreme deal protections in its
revised agreement with SoftBank, among other things, have made it
impracticable for Dish to submit a revised offer by the June 18th deadline
imposed by Sprint. We will consider our options with respect to Sprint, and
focus our efforts and resources on completing the Clearwire tender offer.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130618/dish-drops-out-of-the-bidding-for-sprint/feed/
0 AT&T; Discusses Entering Into a Joint Bid for Hulu With Chernin Group
http://allthingsd.com/20130605/att-discusses-entering-into-a-joint-bid-for-
hulu-with-chernin-group/ http://allthingsd.com/20130605/att-discusses-
entering-into-a-joint-bid-for-hulu-with-chernin-group/#comments Thu, 06 Jun
2013 05:10:51 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=329512 According to sources close
to the telecommunications giant, AT&T; is in discussions with the Chernin
Group about mounting a joint bid to acquire the Hulu premium video site. It
makes sense — in addition to its core phone business, AT&T; also sells
broadband and TV via its U-verse service. And, while well-funded, Chernin
certainly could use the extra financial firepower in the multi-player
competition to buy Hulu. Sources close the the owners have speculated recently
that they expected more joint efforts in the sale of the unit, which is owned
by News Corp., Disney and Comcast. Already, several major players from various
sides have expressed interest in Hulu since its trio of media owners decided
to put it back on the block. Among the bidders: Yahoo, DirecTV, Time Warner
Cable, Guggenheim Partners, as well the Chernin Group. The investment and
media company is run by former News Corp. COO Peter Chernin, who was integral
to the founding of Hulu and had intimate knowledge of how it operates. While
his initial bid was in the lower $500 million range, sources familiar with the
situation said it is likely to be higher as the auction for the site evolves.
Currently, all bids are non-binding, but Hulu is now winnowing them out in
order to move to the next and more serious level of sale. That said, sources
also cautioned that it could turn out that no sale happens if the bids do not
come in at levels about $1 billion. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130605/att-
discusses-entering-into-a-joint-bid-for-hulu-with-chernin-group/feed/ 0
Yahoo's Bid for Hulu in $600M to $800M Range -- Even as It Preps Other Big
Deals in Mobile and Communications http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-
for-hulu-in-600m-to-800m-range-even-as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-
communications/ http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-for-hulu-
in-600m-to-800m-range-even-as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-
communications/#comments Sun, 26 May 2013 18:55:17 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=325412 According to numerous sources close to the
situation, Yahoo has bid from $600 million to $800 million for the premium
video site Hulu. The reason for the wide range is due to the fact that the
Silicon Valley Internet giant — similar to most bidders in the new effort to
acquire Hulu — has proposed several different prices based on a variety of
circumstances. That includes the length of the licensing rights for content
and how much control the programming companies selling Hulu have over their
media. At the same time and separately, according to sources inside the
company, Yahoo is also contemplating at least two other significant purchases
— in the $150 million to $200 million range — each for a mobile and a
communications company. It’s certainly an ambitious and busy M&A; agenda for
Yahoo’s CEO Marissa Mayer, who just forked over $1.1 billion in cash to
purchase youth-skewing blogging site Tumblr last week. Presumably, she is
interested in upping Yahoo’s longtime lackluster video efforts — it famously
lost out at the last minute on the acquisition of YouTube many years ago to
Google — as the arena becomes more critical to advertisers. But, said sources,
while allowing the bid to proceed, Mayer is more focused on the integration of
Tumblr, as well as other acquisitions that will bolster other key product
areas. Thus, sources said that the Hulu effort is being led at Yahoo by Los
Angeles-based Ian Weingarten, VP of corporate development, who works for M&A;
head Jackie Reses. AllThingsD.com first broke the news of that deal, as well
as Yahoo’s initial interest and subsequent bid for Hulu, which is owned by a
trio of media giants: News Corp., Disney and Comcast. The site, which has both
a subscription and an advertising business, was on the market in 2011, with
the hope for a bid of $2 billion that came with several years of programming
rights. The sale was pulled after those higher bids did not materialize. But
Hulu is on the market again in the most advanced effort to sell it so far,
with bids coming in from a range of suitors over the last week. Yahoo’s Mayer
and COO Henrique De Castro had met with Hulu’s team earlier this month for a
get-to-know-you, just after an effort to buy a large stake in French video
site Dailymotion was blocked by the government there. Besides Yahoo, others
interested in acquiring Hulu include: Separate bids from private equity firms
KKR, Guggenheim Digital and Silver Lake (in conjunction with Hollywood talent
agency William Morris Endeavor); Time Warner Cable; DirecTV; and the Chernin
Group. There could still be others, of course, though a deadline for initial
bids has passed. Interestingly, so far, neither Google nor Amazon have made
official efforts, perhaps because the pair already have robust video
platforms. Chernin’s bid, as had been widely reported, started in the $500
million range, which is interesting since the longtime media executive was
once the COO of News Corp. and was critical to Hulu’s creation. Translation:
He’d know just what the video platform is worth and how the place works. Of
course, low bids at the start are part of the normal process; sources close to
the owners said that any bids under $1 billion are unlikely to be accepted.
One thing is certain: Now comes what will look a lot like a very noisy game of
musical chairs, in which the various groups will vie for one-upmanship, even
as they talk to each other about possible joint efforts. Who the most
attractive candidate is, of course, will be much debated. In addition, there
is much disagreement over who and how Hulu should be sold by two of its
owners, Disney and News Corp., which have squabbled over its direction from
the start. (Comcast gave up its management rights as a concession to federal
regulators a few years ago, so is sitting on the sideline twiddling its giant
cable thumbs and doubtlessly wishing it could be a bidder, too.) No matter the
ceaseless bickering among giants, the trio of media conglomerates are
providing Hulu’s most valuable programming, largely television shows from
their broadcast networks. And that is the real point of the negotiating,
according to many involved. “Hulu is a very nice brand and technology, but the
entire negotiation will be about the control and price of the content,” said
one person close to the situation. “It’s the only thing that matters.” I sent
an email for comment to Yahoo, but expect no response. (Full disclosure: News
Corp. owns Dow Jones, which owns this site.) ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130526/yahoos-bid-for-hulu-in-600m-to-800m-range-even-
as-it-preps-other-big-deals-in-mobile-and-communications/feed/ 0 Yahoo's Mayer
Has Met with Hulu Execs in a Preliminary Look-See at Premium Video Unit
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/#comments Tue, 07 May 2013 23:20:44
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=319219 According to numerous sources close to
the situation, Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer recently met with top execs at Hulu,
the premium video service whose big media company owners have been considering
selling it for some months. Sources said Yahoo is “in the process,” although
the Silicon Valley Internet giant has not made any kind of formal bid. Other
players whom sources said are considering purchasing all or parts of Hulu
include: Former News Corp. COO Peter Chernin, who now has a successful and
well-funded multimedia and investment company called the Chernin Group;
Guggenheim Partners digital arm, which is led by former Yahoo interim CEO Ross
Levinsohn; and Amazon. Sources said Mayer also had an extensive getting-to-
know-you meeting, which was apparently not held at Hulu’s offices in Santa
Monica, Calif., along with COO Henrique De Castro. The discussion is taking
place in the wake of Yahoo’s failed bid — largely engineered by De Castro — to
purchase a majority stake in France Télécom’s Dailymotion video service, after
a top French government official said Yahoo could not own 75 percent of the
company. Had the deal — which was reportedly valued at $300 million — gone
through, it would have been the most significant by Mayer since she took over
at the company last July. Thus far, she has limited her purchases to small
mobile startup. While the meetings with Hulu are only preliminary, Yahoo has
been to this video rodeo before, having seriously considering buying Hulu when
it was previously being shopped by its owners, News Corp., Disney and Comcast.
(News Corp. also owns this site.) Of course, if Yahoo’s interest becomes more
serious, Mayer will have to make important visits to top execs at those media
giants, since they control the rights to critical content, and thus Hulu’s
value. As Peter Kafka noted in a previous post about Hulu’s possible sale,
“much hinges on the licensing rights News Corp., Disney and Comcast would
provide for the money-losing site, as well as what happens to the $300 million
debt its owners have taken on in the last year.” Without those rights, Hulu by
itself is a very pretty Web site and video platform, but not worth the
billions it would be with very long-term television rights, content that
attracts users. Currently, sources said its media owners are offering two to
three years of rights, with a lot of flexibility over removing content from
the site, which is not quite as attractive a deal (to say the least). But
video is a key component of Yahoo’s strategy going forward. Along with mobile
efforts, Mayer has explicitly told investors that video was a key to company
under her tenure. Coincidentally, today in an onstage interview at a Wired
conference in New York, Mayer broadly addressed the video issue when asked a
question about the topic, noting it was important across all of Yahoo’s
properties. “I think video is really important … video is something that we’re
all innately designed and born to experience, everyone is born being able to
watch and to hear,” she said. “Video is just this amazing format.” Mayer would
know that well, having been at Google when the search giant bought YouTube,
ironically snatching it at the last minute from a competing bid by Yahoo,
which was then led by Terry Semel. Since then, YouTube has become the most
important and powerful player in the space by far. Yahoo, despite being one of
the largest video players on the Web, has mostly been a lackluster competitor
in the arena, pinging over the years from creating original content to doing
branded deals with media companies, but never establishing a major beachhead
with consumers as Hulu did from scratch. Short of a full acquisition, there
may be a way for Yahoo to partner and invest in Hulu, instead of buying it
outright that works for all sides — owners get a new owner to foot part of the
bill and also increase distribution, and Yahoo can claim that it’s providing
users with exponentially more content that would help Yahoo’s long-declining
engagement problem. Sources said News Corp. and Disney have mulled scenarios
where one or both companies hang on to the site, while Comcast has no control
over Hulu’s fate, having given up its management rights to the site as a
concession to federal regulators. But the strength of the Hulu brand is clear
and it has had some success in building a more significant business. While a
lot of its video offerings are free, about four million people are paying for
a Hulu Plus subscription. Still, Hulu’s strength might be lagging, especially
given after talented founding leader Jason Kilar recently left. Last year,
Hulu was a top 10 video site, according to comScore. No longer — in a report
in March, it had dropped out of the top 10. While this likely has more to do
with methodology than real decline in Hulu ratings, it does show that while
it’s the biggest thing Yahoo could buy or invest in, Yahoo itself has plenty
of video views, many more than Hulu. The question for Mayer then is how much
of Yahoo’s multi-billon-dollar cash kitty she wants to bet on a big video
play. She might also be considering buying several smaller ones, said sources,
with Yahoo having also looked at some smaller video sites, including Blip and
Grab Media. A spokeswoman for Hulu declined to comment and Yahoo PR has not
responded to a query for comment (if ever). ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130507/yahoos-mayer-has-met-with-hulu-execs-in-a-
preliminary-look-see-at-premium-video-unit/feed/ 0 Yahoo Is Among Those
Mulling a TVGuide.com Bid for About $20 Million
http://allthingsd.com/20121119/yahoo-is-among-those-mulling-a-tvguide-com-bid-
for-about-20-million/ http://allthingsd.com/20121119/yahoo-is-among-those-
mulling-a-tvguide-com-bid-for-about-20-million/#comments Tue, 20 Nov 2012
01:36:56 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=271076 According to sources close to
the situation, Yahoo is among the companies taking a serious gander at
TVGuide.com, the online entertainment listings, video and news site and mobile
app. Earlier today, Deadline Hollywood reported that its owner, Lionsgate, was
in “advanced negotiations” to sell the site for about $20 million to one
strategic bidder. That’s the approximate price, my sources said too, who noted
that Yahoo is only kicking the tires to determine if the site would add to its
online media efforts and that such a deal is not in a final state. But
TVGuide.com is right in the wheelhouse of Yahoo’s acquisition efforts under
CEO Marissa Mayer. She said the Silicon Valley Internet giant was looking at
smaller purchases to round out its product line, especially in the mobile
area. Thus, its M&A; point person, Jackie Reses, has been looking at
“everything in the world,” according to numerous sources, across a large
spectrum of arenas. TVGuide.com is in the media space, obviously — another
she’s looked at is Los Angeles-based Maker Studios. Hollywood studio Lionsgate
last reported that TVGuide.com has upward of 24 million unique monthly
visitors, and also has almost seven million mobile app users. Lionsgate bought
the site and television network in 2009, which also is owned in part by J.P.
Morgan’s One Equity Partners. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121119/yahoo-is-
among-those-mulling-a-tvguide-com-bid-for-about-20-million/feed/ 0 What Will
Marissa Do?: Yahoo CEO Zeroes in on Search, While Her Ad Team Eyes Tech
Upgrade Options http://allthingsd.com/20120921/what-will-marissa-do-yahoo-ceo-
zeroes-in-on-search-while-her-ad-team-eyes-tech-upgrade-options/
http://allthingsd.com/20120921/what-will-marissa-do-yahoo-ceo-zeroes-in-on-
search-while-her-ad-team-eyes-tech-upgrade-options/#comments Fri, 21 Sep 2012
19:27:51 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=252684 It’s been nice to see all the
euphoria at Yahoo about free food and Apple iPhones kicking it up a notch.
But, purple people, guess what? Them’s just your basic table stakes in Silicon
Valley these days and pretty much everyone else has had such perks for a long
while now. Thus, as nice as it is to drink your coconut water gratis, after
two months in charge, it’s long past time to focus on what new Yahoo CEO
Marissa Mayer is up to besides making much-needed but obvious cultural changes
at the troubled Internet giant. She’s been busy with the expected listening
tour of employees and also outside tech players — such as former Yahoo CEO
Terry Semel — which is a textbook stop in the turnaround playbook. Now comes
the hard part: Actually beginning to make the significant decisions about how
she’s going to turn around Yahoo and what the key issues of strategic focus
need to be. In a series of recent meetings, according to numerous sources
inside the company, Mayer has begun to outline what those are to top staff.
Not surprisingly, they are many of the same thorny issues that Yahoo has been
facing for a long time and which center primarily on making the company
relevant again in a wide number of ways. I’ll get to many of them over the
next week in a series of What Will Marissa Do? posts — including looking
closely at her new hires, when and how Mayer will deal with inevitable layoff
decisions facing the company, where the sale of Yahoo! Japan stands and,
finally, what she’s cooking up for key Yahoo products. But the focus has to
fall first of all on search and advertising, the two arenas that Mayer has
been studying most closely, according to numerous sources close to the
situation. That has included a recent meeting and numerous discussions with
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer about improving Yahoo’s search advertising
partnership, said sources at both companies. That deal has been largely
disappointing since it was struck under the regime of ousted CEO Carol Bartz
several years ago. Many reasons are given for the poor performance of the
entire arrangement, including lack of improvement of cost per click and share
growth for both parties. That means bid density and numbers of advertisers
remain too low, especially compared to Google’s offering of access to a
larger, more active and lucrative market. Simply put, despite massive spending
by Microsoft on search, users and advertisers get significantly better results
overall with the search leader Google. (You can read a great piece by Search
Engine Land’s Danny Sullivan from last year, which exhaustively looked at the
issues until then.) The irony abounds that it’s up to Mayer to fix this
problem of improving revenue per search with Ballmer, since she has been among
the executives who have made Google the search behemoth it has become. Her
particular expertise has been on search experience for consumers, which is
just the area that Yahoo desperately needs to improve after handing over
technology duties to Microsoft. That move was controversial at the time and
some feel it was a big mistake. But, most also think there is no going back at
this point, given the enormous cost of running a serious search enterprise.
Such an idea is still being raised inside Yahoo, although it seems more
nostalgic than a realistic possibility, given the enormous price and, more
importantly, the departure of the company’s core search engineers in recent
years. That doesn’t mean Yahoo under Mayer can’t be key to helping solve
Microsoft’s search tech problems. She certainly knows the entire arena, which
has already given Yahoo increased credibility among Microsoft’s search
engineers. “None of Yahoo’s many CEOs knew anything about search technology
and that’s certainly not the case here with Mayer,” said one person close to
the situation at Microsoft. “When she walks in, she instantly has status among
the geeks as someone who knows what she’s talking about.” It still may be a
losing battle, due to Google’s overwhelming dominance, but if anyone at Yahoo
can spot areas of even small improvement — which can yield big returns — it
could be Mayer. In addition, she can spearhead Yahoo’s own efforts to reverse
— or perhaps simply stop — search market share declines via delivering a
better consumer offering. That’s still heavy lifting, no matter the exec,
since both Microsoft’s Bing and Google are better equipped to win here, too.
“It hard to imagine we are going to slow down in any way,” said one former
colleague of Mayer’s at Google to me recently in a rather ominous tone. “We’re
only going to get more competitive.” Pressure much? And more: Mayer is under a
time limit, since guaranteed payments Microsoft agreed to pay Yahoo for the
shortfalls on what was promised will be running out next year. The pair has
renegotiated that deal before, and it will likely have to do so again. Of
course, Mayer could try to walk and threaten to take Yahoo’s search business
elsewhere, a move that former CEO Scott Thompson was mulling before his
ouster. That’s not a surprising ploy, except it is probably impossible to pull
off, a fact acknowledged by top Yahoo execs. “It might feel good to say we
have options in search,” said one person close to the situation. “But that
ship sailed years ago.” Indeed, especially since Google is the only choice of
possible alternate partners and such a move is rife with major obstacles.
There is the issue of the contract with Microsoft, which could lead to a
potentially explosive legal struggle Yahoo can ill afford. “They can try to
get out of the deal,” said one high-ranking person at the software giant. “But
that’s a lot easier threatened than done.” And, there is the clear regulatory
hairball any search hook-up between Google and Yahoo would lead to. That’s
happened before, which Mayer knows well since she was a top exec in Google’s
business when it tried to partner with Yahoo as a way to prevent Microsoft’s
hostile takeover bid for the company. While times might have changed, Google
is currently facing a likely battle with the Federal Trade Commission over its
powerful search business, and trying to get Yahoo’s business now is a non-
starter. Thus, finally fixing the Microsoft partnership is key to Mayer’s
success since it represents a little over one-third of revenue of Yahoo (see
the chart below). The bigger part of Yahoo’s business, as you can also see
from the chart, has been display revenues. And that, too, has been a sorry
tale of declines and ever more disappointing results. A report by eMarketer on
display market share had this depressing chart for Yahoo: As is clear, the
march downward for one-time leader Yahoo has been swift, and the prospects for
the future are worse as Google and Facebook vie for leadership. The reasons
for this have been myriad, but Mayer has apparently decided that it’s been due
in large part to the broken Yahoo ad tech platforms and their ever weaker
performance. As we have previously reported, she has determined that it’s now
time to invest in improving them, both by funding internally and external
acquisitions. For that, she has formed a tight group of execs to scan the
landscape for tasty and innovative treats for Yahoo to gobble up. That
includes: Scott Burke, SVP of Yahoo’s advertising and data platforms; Brian
Silver, who runs the company’s Right Media Exchange; Xuhui Shao, a key
engineering VP under Burke; and Mark Morrissey, the longtime tech exec who
previously ran the company’s search business and was key to integrating the
Microsoft search deal into place. The cerebral Burke especially has been
pushing ad platform improvement for a while and finally seems to have won the
battle against detractors of the big and possibly grandiose plan by appealing
to Mayer’s interest in not giving up. Thus, the tabling of plans by Thompson,
as well as interim CEO Ross Levinsohn, to outsource some of the automated
parts of the display business to Google. Those talks were very serious, as
well as others to sell off Right Media, but they are done for now. One major
issue — the people in charge of the ad platform turnaround could also be seen
(and most definitely are) as mired in Yahoo’s legacy of lackluster results and
poor performance. “It is kind of funny that the guys responsible for the
decline now have the responsibility for fixing it,” said one source at Yahoo.
It’s a fair point to be made. But that’s water under the bridge, apparently,
since the group has been making the rounds, helped by Yahoo’s M&A; execs, with
a wide range of companies in many different ad tech area being considered (and
some dismissed), including: Mediaocean, Turn, Criteo, PubMatic and Millennial
Media. Millennial is the most interesting, because it is a mobile ad play,
where Yahoo is exactly nowhere (to be fair, less than nowhere) after years of
botched efforts. As with other companies, this is a critical arena for Yahoo,
and yet one more that Mayer needs to focus on. Lastly, Mayer has to make sure
Yahoo’s premium display business remains strong. This is much more based on
relationships with large advertisers than on major sponsorship and branding
offerings, as well as creating consumer products and content that is appealing
to marketers. This area is now headed up by former Google exec Michael
Barrett, who has publicly said he was staying put for now at Yahoo as its
chief of revenue. In fact, because he is in charge of all sales, he occupies
the second slot under Mayer on Yahoo’s now strangely configured, punctuation-
impaired and information-free management page. But numerous sources inside and
outside Yahoo said Barrett has also told many people that he is still not
fully committed to staying in the role for the long haul. If he eventually
gets a lucrative exit package — something the new boss is not being very
generous with overall, said sources — that will mean Mayer will need a high-
profile and well-regarded ad exec to replace him; sources said Mayer has
already begun reaching out to some candidates. The pickings are slim, with
only a few names on the list of those capable of taking on such a job. That
includes: Demand Media’s Joanne Bradford, who was also a former top Yahoo
exec; Microsoft’s Yusuf Mehdi; OWN’s Kathleen Kayse; MLB.com’s Bob Bowman; and
any number of Google execs. In that regard, as with all the other search and
advertising overhaul efforts at Yahoo, it is a matter of attracting serious
talent into the company going forward. More on that — and more — to come. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120921/what-will-marissa-do-yahoo-ceo-zeroes-in-on-
search-while-her-ad-team-eyes-tech-upgrade-options/feed/ 0 What Does Dan Loeb
Want for His $1B -- Lotsa Yahoo News, That's What!
http://allthingsd.com/20120320/what-does-dan-loeb-want-for-his-1b-lotsa-yahoo-
news-thats-what/ http://allthingsd.com/20120320/what-does-dan-loeb-want-for-
his-1b-lotsa-yahoo-news-thats-what/#comments Tue, 20 Mar 2012 13:59:30 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=188144 Last week, Yahoo’s activist shareholder Dan
Loeb of Third Point, the New York hedge fund that is waging a proxy fight
against the Silicon Valley Internet giant, made a regulatory filing noting
that it had spent $971.1 million to acquire 70.5 million shares of Yahoo, a
5.8 percent stake. Loeb asked for Yahoo to consider his alternate board slate,
and also wanted its shareholder list to communicate with other investors. But
that’s not all: In another action last week, Third Point asked a Delaware
court to give it a look at sealed documents from a now-settled 2008
shareholder lawsuit related to Microsoft’s failed bid for Yahoo. Said Third
Point in its legal request, which Yahoo is seeking to block (of course!): “It
is not surprising, then, that Yahoo and its soon-to-be former directors wish
to keep details of their embarrassing — and fiduciarily suspect — conduct
hidden from view.” Here’s a video I did talking about the mishegas on
WSJ.com’s “Digits” online show: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20120320/what-does-
dan-loeb-want-for-his-1b-lotsa-yahoo-news-thats-what/feed/ 0 Outgoing Yahoo
Chairman Roy Bostock's Farewell Letter (And Other Stuff)
http://allthingsd.com/20120207/outgoing-yahoo-chairman-roy-bostocks-farewell-
letter-and-other-stuff/ http://allthingsd.com/20120207/outgoing-yahoo-
chairman-roy-bostocks-farewell-letter-and-other-stuff/#comments Tue, 07 Feb
2012 21:11:38 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=172183 Earlier today, I had
reported that Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock was stepping down. He is, and the
full letter he just released saying so is below. Bostock did not say in the
missive who will be Yahoo chairman in his place. Intuit CEO Brad Smith has a
full-time job, and the newly installed Weather Channel CEO David Kenny does,
too. Among the current directors, that would leave Sue James, Patti Hart and
newly installed Yahoo CEO Scott Thompson — or one of Yahoo’s new board
members. In the letter, Bostock outlined the departures of four board members
and the addition of five more directors (two of which were just named); did a
little back-patting of his recent efforts to turn Yahoo around (after
presiding over the board that got the Silicon Valley Internet giant into this
mess); noted that the Asian talks to sell Yahoo’s stakes there are proceeding
(it’s coming!); gave Thompson a thumbs-up (go, Scott!); and delivered kudos to
Jerry Yang, the co-founder who left only weeks ago. “Working with Jerry was
always a delight,” wrote Bostock. (Me, not so much, I would guess! Bygones?)
All kidding aside, Bostock has been the subject of a lot of criticism about
Yahoo’s troubles, both deserved and undeserved, most especially for the non-
sale to Microsoft several years ago. Many, including activist shareholder
Daniel Loeb most recently, have called for his resignation. It has not been an
easy job, to be sure, so it must be a bit of a relief for the longtime
advertising exec, who serves on other prominent boards, to finally pull away
from the Yahoo black hole. So, who’s next? One interesting line in the letter,
which everyone already knew, was that none of the various bids from outside
investors have passed muster. Wrote Bostock: “We have engaged with potential
investors and reviewed proposals concerning an equity investment in the
Company, although at this time there have not been any proposals which have
been deemed by the Committee to be attractive to our shareholders.” Here’s the
Bostock letter: Yahoo! Releases Chairman’s Update for Shareholders SUNNYVALE,
Calif., February 7, 2012 — Yahoo! Inc (NASDAQ: YHOO), the premier digital
media company, today released the following shareholder update from its
Chairman Roy Bostock. February 7, 2012 Dear Fellow Shareholders: I write today
to update you on the actions the Yahoo! board has taken, and the actions it is
pursuing, to increase shareholder value and position the Company for growth.
These actions result from a process I initiated about six months ago in a
special meeting of the independent directors in which we analyzed the reasons
why Yahoo! was not meeting either our own expectations or those of our
shareholders. The board decided then to move aggressively on three fronts to
position Yahoo! for future success: one, we initiated a search for a new Chief
Executive Officer with a vision and set of skills to lead Yahoo! into the
future; two, we undertook a comprehensive strategic and structural review of
the business; and three, we decided to assess the composition of the Company’s
board of directors relative to its ability to enhance the prospects for
Yahoo!’s future success. We have made progress on all three fronts. First, and
most importantly, we have appointed Scott Thompson as CEO to lead our company.
Scott is a capable and dynamic leader who brings the experience and expertise
the Company needs to achieve robust growth and success in the marketplace.
Over the coming months and years, Scott will lead an outstanding team of
Yahoos to deliver engaging user experiences driven by innovative products.
Second, we have made significant progress on the comprehensive strategic
review which is overseen by the board’s Transactions and Strategic Planning
Committee, chaired by director Brad Smith, the CEO of Intuit. The Committee’s
guiding principle has been to assess alternatives which would increase value
for all Yahoo! shareholders, and the Committee has been open to any
transaction or initiative that would serve this objective. As part of this
review, we have pursued a wide range of discussions with potential partners.
We have engaged with potential investors and reviewed proposals concerning an
equity investment in the Company, although at this time there have not been
any proposals which have been deemed by the Committee to be attractive to our
shareholders. We are also in active discussions with our partners in Asia
regarding the possibility of restructuring our holdings in Alibaba Group and
Yahoo! Japan. The complexity and unique nature of these transactions is
significant. While we continue to devote significant resources to these
discussions, we are not in a position at this time to provide further detail
or to provide assurance that any transaction will be achieved. Finally, the
board has concluded that in order to accelerate the Company’s transformation,
the combination of a new Chief Executive Officer with an enhanced team of
independent directors would provide Yahoo! with the expertise and perspectives
necessary to drive innovation and growth going forward. Therefore, Mr. Joshi,
Mr. Kern, Mr. Wilson and I have volunteered not to stand for re-election at
the next shareholders’ meeting. Furthermore, the board today elected two
highly qualified independent directors, Alfred Amoroso and Maynard Webb, Jr.
Mr. Amoroso served as President and CEO of Rovi Corporation until December
2011 and, among other positions, had previously served as the President, CEO
and Vice Chairman of META Group, Inc., the President and CEO of CrossWorlds
Software, Inc. and as a member of the world-wide management committee of IBM
Corporation. Mr. Webb, the Chairman of LiveOps, Inc., served as that company’s
CEO until July 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Webb was Chief Operating Officer of
eBay and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Gateway,
Inc., in addition to management, leadership and board positions at several
other companies spanning his 30-year career. The board continues its search
for additional independent directors. This search is being led by director
Patti Hart, CEO of International Game Technology, Inc., who chairs our
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. We anticipate announcing
additional directors to round out the board as soon as this process concludes.
Separately, as previously announced, Jerry Yang has resigned from the board of
directors and other positions within the Company to pursue his many interests
outside of Yahoo!. Working with Jerry was always a delight. He is a visionary
and a pioneer who contributed enormously to Yahoo! since he co-founded the
Company in 1995. He will be missed. The board thanks him deeply for his
service and commitment to the Company. Thus, following this year’s Annual
Meeting a majority of Yahoo!’s directors will be new to the board this year,
and all directors will have joined the board since 2010. We believe that this
reconfigured board, with a fresh set of perspectives and diverse set of
skills, will enable the Company to move forward even more aggressively. It has
always been a privilege for me to serve as Chairman of Yahoo!. The employees
of Yahoo! remain the heart, soul, and future of the company. And with Scott
Thompson leading them, they are the reason why I believe Yahoo! will create
significant shareholder value over the coming years. In September, this board
moved proactively and decisively to improve the performance of the Company for
the benefit of its shareholders. These actions could not have been
accomplished without the support and active participation of each director on
the board. For that, I thank them. And I thank them for the knowledge,
expertise, talents and commitment they have brought to Yahoo!. We all take
pride in the fact that we are positioning Yahoo! for success in the future.
Yahoo! is an incredibly strong brand with formidable assets. I have every
expectation that under Scott’s leadership, working together with the
reconstituted board, the Company will thrive for many years to come.
Sincerely, Roy Bostock Chairman of the Board ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120207/outgoing-yahoo-chairman-roy-bostocks-farewell-
letter-and-other-stuff/feed/ 0 Exclusive: Yahoo Poised to Name CEO -- With
eBay's PayPal Prez as Top Choice http://allthingsd.com/20120103/exclusive-
yahoo-poised-to-name-ceo-with-ebays-paypal-head-as-top-choice/
http://allthingsd.com/20120103/exclusive-yahoo-poised-to-name-ceo-with-ebays-
paypal-head-as-top-choice/#comments Wed, 04 Jan 2012 07:29:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=159560 According to sources close to the situation,
Yahoo is poised to name a CEO, an announcement that could come as early as
tomorrow. Sources said the leading candidate likely to get the nod is a dark
horse and someone who has not been named in previous reports (and not on my
suggested lists!): PayPal President Scott Thompson, who runs eBay’s massive
online payments unit. While the situation could certainly change, the Yahoo
board has definitely been moving aggressively of late to try to find a new
leader for the Silicon Valley Internet giant. The company fired its last CEO,
Carol Bartz, in September; Yahoo has been run by the board and also by interim
CEO Tim Morse, who had previously been its CFO. After Bartz’s ouster, Yahoo
said it was looking at a range of strategic options, including the possible
sale of all or part of the company. That was the focus at first, although
Yahoo had simultaneously hired Heidrick & Struggles to look for a new CEO. The
company attracted two partial investment bids from private equity firms,
Silver Lake and TPG Capital, but shareholders were unhappy with the low prices
of these so-called PIPE — Private Investment in Public Equity — arrangements.
Yahoo then moved to try to strike a tax-advantaged deal with its long-
disgruntled Asian partners, China’s Alibaba Group and Japan’s SoftBank, to
sell back parts of the large stakes it has long owned in Alibaba and Yahoo!
Japan. Those complex negotiations are still ongoing and look promising, which
could yield Yahoo billions of dollars in capital to be given to investors, for
stock buybacks or to invest in new initiatives. Since then, the board — long
considered one of the more cloddish in tech — has turned its attention to
hiring a new CEO, in the hopes of trying once again to revive its flagging
fortunes. Thus, it began looking to hire someone with deep tech experience at
a large public consumer Internet company in Silicon Valley. That narrowed the
field, with Yahoo looking at a range of choices with expertise in advertising,
technology platforms and more. There is a lot of that on the deep bench that
eBay CEO John Donahoe has assembled at the online commerce giant, including
Thompson. Plus, he is a genuine Internet geek. According to his eBay bio,
Thompson became president of PayPal in early 2008, after serving as its CTO in
charge of information technology, product development and architecture. Before
eBay, he worked at Inovant, a subsidiary of Visa formed to oversee global
technology for the organization. He was also CIO of Barclays Global Investors
and has worked at Coopers and Lybrand on information technology. And here’s a
tasty new wrinkle: Thompson recently “liked” Yahoo on his Facebook page, along
with the decidedly more interesting Kickstarter and Splunk. (Dear Scott, Nice
to meet you. And thanks for the tip! FYI, it’s a juicy giveaway like that
which feeds my insatiable quest to find out All Things Yahoo!) More to come
soon, I expect. Yahoo, as usual, never got back to me on my query, although
the much more cordial people at eBay politely declined to comment. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120103/exclusive-yahoo-poised-to-name-ceo-with-ebays-
paypal-head-as-top-choice/feed/ 0 Here Are Some More Yahoo CEO Choices:
Liddell, Rosenblatt, Desmond http://allthingsd.com/20111227/heres-some-more-
yahoo-ceo-choices-liddell-rosenblatt-desmond/
http://allthingsd.com/20111227/heres-some-more-yahoo-ceo-choices-liddell-
rosenblatt-desmond/#comments Tue, 27 Dec 2011 12:12:20 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=157034 It’s the typically newsless time around
Christmas and New Year’s, but for once there has actually been a lot going on
at Yahoo. Last week, the Silicon Valley Internet giant’s typically moribund
board decided to move ahead with negotiations to sell part of its stake in
China’s Alibaba Group, as well as all of its shares in Yahoo Japan. While that
is still not a done deal, it adds clarity to the Yahoo mishegas, as current
leaders there seek to turn around the company’s lagging fortunes. Now, as
Yahoo continues to contemplate a pair of partial investment bids by private
equity firms Silver Lake and TPG Capital into 2012, more focus will be on the
selection of a CEO candidate to take over, sources said. While I have floated
some names that have been contemplated — such as Hulu CEO Jason Kilar, Juniper
CEO Kevin Johnson, former aQuantive and Microsoft exec Brian McAndrews, and
board member David Kenny — I have collected some more that seem to be getting
the once-over and are being mentioned internally as well as externally.
Sources said that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee at Yahoo,
which is run by independent director Patti Hart, has been looking for someone
with definite public company experience, as well as expertise in large-scale
management. As to talent, candidates seem to be either good at running big
platforms, or deeply knowledgeable about advertising and media as well as
technology. Another important criteria, said sources: Someone who is
“collaborative” and nonconfrontational. As in, not like the former and very
pugnacious CEO Carol Bartz, who was fired in September. Thus, here’s another
trio of candidates to consider, while we wait — and who knows how long that
will be given that the Asian activity could have tired out for a bit this
usually slow-moving board: Chris Liddell: The former CFO of Microsoft is an
interesting name that just popped up recently, and it makes some sense when
you think about the possible mindset of the Yahoo board. Liddell, who has a
charming New Zealand accent, did a short stint, from January of 2010 to March
of this year, as CFO at General Motors. Recently married to another former
Microsoft exec, he has since been living in New York. He apparently loves
living in the Big Apple. But when he left GM, Liddell made it clear he wanted
to go for a top job next. He was among the candidates for a recent search for
a CEO of Time Warner’s Time Inc. (an effort that was run by exec search firm
Heidrick & Struggles, which is also conducting the Yahoo hunt). Known as tough
and decisive, he certainly is qualified to deal with complex financial
situations, such as the one in which Yahoo now finds itself knee-deep. One
knock: Little product or advertising experience. Laura Desmond: While
certainly a dark horse, Desmond has been queried by Heidrick, said several
sources. She is CEO of Starcom MediaVest Group, a subsidiary of Publicis, one
of the largest media planning and buying agencies, making Desmond one of
advertising’s most prominent players. Well-known in Yahoo’s key market, she is
considered a savvy and smart exec with a wry sense of humor. I happen to
particularly like one line from one of her bios: “Ms. Desmond’s career has
been driven by two caveats: Take intelligent risks and learn more from failure
than from success.” She could learn a lot at Yahoo. (I know, easy jab, but it
works!) David Rosenblatt: The former DoubleClick CEO, who went on to a big ad
job at Google after it paid $3.2 billion for the company, is also a long shot,
mostly by his own choosing. The sharp exec is always on the short list of CEO
candidates for a lot of big, splashy online jobs, but he seems to want to swim
his own way. Case in point: He was recently named CEO of New York-based
1stdibs, a relatively obscure online marketplace known among antique dealers
and interior designers looking for one-of-a-kind furniture, art and lighting.
Yes, that’s right: Fancy lamps. Rosenblatt also serves on the boards at Group
Commerce, Twitter and IAC. All that Internet ad and e-commerce experience is
exactly why Rosenblatt would be one of the better choices for CEO of Yahoo.
But, for him, I would guess taking such a job is probably in the life’s-too-
short category. More to come, obvi! ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20111227/heres-
some-more-yahoo-ceo-choices-liddell-rosenblatt-desmond/feed/ 0 Yahoo Okays
Initial Term Sheet to Sell Stakes Back to Asian Partners -- While Also Hoping
to Keep PE Firms in Fray http://allthingsd.com/20111223/yahoo-okays-
proceeding-with-term-sheet-to-sell-stakes-back-to-asian-partners-while-also-
hoping-to-keep-pe-firms-in-fray/ http://allthingsd.com/20111223/yahoo-okays-
proceeding-with-term-sheet-to-sell-stakes-back-to-asian-partners-while-also-
hoping-to-keep-pe-firms-in-fray/#comments Fri, 23 Dec 2011 19:23:11 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=156559 Yahoo shareholders felt a little giddier
earlier this week, when it seemed as if the company had finally decided to
make a deal with its Asian partners. But the happiest crew might end up being
the Silicon Valley Internet giant’s outside counsel, Skadden Arps — and
especially Leif King, the fantastically named legal eagle who has been
advising Yahoo on the deal. That’s because today the Yahoo board approved
continuing the negotiations to come to a final agreement over the stake,
sources said, which should take six to eight weeks. It’ll surely be happy
holidays for billable hours! As costly as the legal bills will be, if it all
goes well, an Asian solution will mean one major problem solved, with a
possible pile of cash and new assets coming in to Yahoo. To get there, the
company signed a term sheet earlier this week with Japan’s SoftBank to sell
back all its holdings there, and with China’s Alibaba Group to sell off more
than half its stake (moving from a 40 percent stake to a 15 percent one). The
deal values Yahoo’s total shares in both companies at about $17 billion. While
it gets a pretty accounting name — “cash-rich split “– the vehicle to unwind
it all is essentially a complex tax dodge finally cooked up by the trio, in
which cash, new assets and stock will be moved around until everyone gets what
they want (except the U.S. government). I would explain it — but I am on
vacation, and would rather drink eggnog and sleep — so here is The Wall Street
Journal’s version, which I like because it sounds like Alibaba and SoftBank
are giving Yahoo a hugely loaded Starbucks card for Christmas: “As envisioned
in the scenario, Alibaba would create a subsidiary into which it would put
several billion dollars of cash, plus an operating asset that Yahoo wants to
buy using additional cash from Alibaba, almost like giving Yahoo a prepaid
card for an asset of its choice, the people said.” Everyone is hoping there
will not be any hiccups in the deal, which has been spearheaded by Yahoo board
member and Intuit CEO Brad Smith, and Jerry Yang, who is also the company’s
co-founder and a major shareholder. Alibaba CEO Jack Ma and CFO Joe Tsai, both
co-founders of that company, were the point men for the Chinese company. And
for SoftBank, it was its founder and CEO Masa Son and his main U.S. exec, Ron
Fisher. Now, said sources, Yahoo’s board is hoping to still keep the bids from
a pair of private equity firms — Silver Lake and TPG Capital — alive. While
initially the focus on the action, the PE bidding for partial Yahoo stakes has
recently been sidelined by the Asian deal. Now, sources said, Yahoo is hoping
the new infusion of cash and assets will allow it fend off shareholder unrest
— stock buybacks and dividends, anyone — to solicit higher prices from the
firms to make strategic investments. Yahoo had considered the initial bids too
low, as did some very pissed-off activist shareholders. Still, it’s not clear
if those firms will jack their offers now, although sources said Silver Lake
is still interested in some sort of deal that would give it influence over
remaking Yahoo. Silver Lake and others think the long-troubled company could
be revived with some effort, and become a much more lucrative Web property.
But those negotiations might run into roadblocks over who gets to pick
leadership for the company. Yahoo has accelerated its efforts to hire a new
CEO, after firing Carol Bartz in September. The PE firms, who would buy a
large stake in Yahoo, also have wanted some level of control, including CEO
and board approval, in order to be able to make massive changes at the company
to turn it around. Wall Street seems to like the Asian part of the deal, at
least, since it shows some sort of forward momentum at Yahoo, and from its
often-lugubrious board. Shares are up almost 7 percent in the last few days,
although they are not popping as they might be, given that new valuations
based on a successful Asian deal put the stock at a much higher price. In
other words, investors like what they see, but are watching and waiting for
more. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20111223/yahoo-okays-proceeding-with-term-
sheet-to-sell-stakes-back-to-asian-partners-while-also-hoping-to-keep-pe-
firms-in-fray/feed/ 0 Google Will Pay Mozilla Almost $300M Per Year in Search
Deal, Besting Microsoft and Yahoo http://allthingsd.com/20111222/google-will-
pay-mozilla-almost-300m-per-year-in-search-deal-besting-microsoft-and-yahoo/
http://allthingsd.com/20111222/google-will-pay-mozilla-almost-300m-per-year-
in-search-deal-besting-microsoft-and-yahoo/#comments Thu, 22 Dec 2011 18:57:10
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=156313 Please see this disclosure related to me
and Google. Earlier this week, Google and Mozilla said they had struck a deal
to renew their search royalty agreement for another three years. What the pair
declined to add: The search giant will pay just under $300 million per year to
be the default choice in Mozilla’s Firefox browser, a huge jump from its
previous arrangement, due to competing interest from both Yahoo and Microsoft.
Sources said this total amount — just under $1 billion — was the minimum
revenue guarantee for delivering search queries garnered from consumers using
Firefox. Google’s main rival in the bid, sources said, was Microsoft’s Bing
search service, which was aggressively trying to hip-check it from the main
search spot on the browser. That’s because the software giant has been
spending a lot of money in efforts to grow Bing’s market share in the search
market. Microsoft, of course, also owns the still-dominant Internet Explorer
browser, but Google’s Chrome has recently been making major gains over both IE
and Mozilla’s Firefox. Still, Mozilla’s recent negotiations with both
companies was about search market share. Yahoo was also in the mix, even
though Microsoft powers its search technology, because a hookup with Firefox
was considered a plus in holding on to its declining search market share. But
the deal, which was being pushed hard by Yahoo’s Chief Product Officer Blake
Irving and its search head Shashi Seth, was determined to be too costly for
Yahoo. Costly indeed, since the new price is much higher than Google had
previously ponied up to Mozilla. In 2010, Google contributed 84 percent of
Mozilla’s $123 million in revenue. A previous version of the partnership had
expired at the end of November, and the new talks were done against a backdrop
of simmering tension between Google and Mozilla over Chrome. As Liz Gannes
wrote earlier this week: Since the first search royalty deal was signed in
2008, Google’s own Chrome browser has become a significant competitor. Just
last month, Chrome overtook Firefox in global usage for the first time,
according to StatCounter. Both browsers — software which is used to navigate
the Internet — have about 25 percent market share. Even with the new default
deal with Google, Mozilla still also has partnerships with other search
providers, including Bing, Yahoo, Yandex, Amazon and eBay. Of course,
everybody declined to comment on my queries to hand over all the financial
deets stat. But Google’s SVP of Search, Alan Eustace, said in a statement:
“Mozilla has been a valuable partner to Google over the years and we look
forward to continuing this great partnership in the years to come.” Great,
perhaps, but also much more expensive — so presumably Firefox is worth it. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111222/google-will-pay-mozilla-almost-300m-per-year-
in-search-deal-besting-microsoft-and-yahoo/feed/ 0 Yahoo Intensifies Search
for CEO (With Hulu's Kilar as One Dream Unicorn Candidate)
http://allthingsd.com/20111220/yahoo-intensifies-search-for-ceo-with-hulus-
kilar-as-dream-unicorn-candidate/ http://allthingsd.com/20111220/yahoo-
intensifies-search-for-ceo-with-hulus-kilar-as-dream-unicorn-
candidate/#comments Wed, 21 Dec 2011 00:40:07 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=154996 Whatever you want to call him or her — a
silver bullet, the cure or, as I like to say, the last unicorn — Yahoo’s ever-
seeking and never-deciding board has now renewed its focus on finding a new
CEO. Also on the docket: Working on a deal to sell back at least some of its
stake in its twin Asian assets — Yahoo Japan and the Alibaba Group — back to
the companies. A partial sale of stock back could placate the often tense
situation among the partners. What is clear is that the two bids from private
equity firms are now in an undetermined circling pattern — due to a variety of
concerns around shareholder unrest (Occupy Yahoo looms for 2012). Therefore,
the idea of bringing in said fantasy leader to perhaps finally be the one to
revive the long-troubled company has returned to the forefront of action,
according to numerous sources both inside and outside the company. The concept
in short, said people familiar with the situation: Hire some compelling and
entrepreneurial CEO to get the company moving again from a product point of
view, do a massive organizational overhaul and help settle Yahoo’s thorny
Asian issues. While a number of names have been rumored in reports — such as
Google business lead Nikesh Arora, who is actually not likely to leave his top
post at the search giant — sources said the board has been targeting a number
of candidates, including Hulu CEO Jason Kilar. Others on Yahoo’s wish list
include Juniper CEO Kevin Johnson and online advertising entrepreneur Brian
McAndrews, who sold aQuantive to Microsoft. There are several others also
being considered. Sources said Kilar has met with Yahoo board members about
the offer, but his hiring would be a long shot. It’s an interesting — if
complex — gambit to bring in Kilar, who has had his own wrangles with the
multi-owner structure of the premium video service over the years. Kilar’s
status at Hulu has been in question ever since it was put on the block, then
removed and then — well — who knows. Hulu’s owners — News Corp., Disney and
Providence Equity Partners, along with Comcast (which is a now a passive
investor) — did not like the offers it got from various bidders, including
Yahoo. While the media giants have made noises about wanting to keep a stake
in distribution, their commitment to that remains unclear. The situation has
put Kilar — who already had tense relations with the service’s shareholders —
in limbo until a valuation is determined next year. Without going into the
complex details, Kilar has a large equity stake that could be liquid in April,
related to certain rights held by Providence. It is well known that Kilar has
been concerned the team that built Hulu gets some sort of payout for their
work. In fact, many years ago, Hulu was seen as a possible IPO candidate.
What’s not in question is Kilar’s talent at creating a cohesive team and a
compelling product — especially with an advertising and media focus — and the
need at Yahoo for a vibrant leader to encourage innovation and discourage its
rapidly increasing attrition issues. The search for a new Yahoo CEO — which is
being led by director Patti Hart, and is being conducted by Heidrick &
Struggles — had been mostly sidelined until recently, as the board solicited
bids for a partial investment from PE firms. Two emerged, from Silver Lake and
TPG Capital, which had wanted to pay from $16.50 to $18 a share for a stake of
just under 20 percent in what is called a PIPE (Private Investment in Public
Equity) arrangement. But the low price, and worries about lawsuits and even a
proxy fight related to such a deal, have slowed down the momentum
significantly, said sources. Instead, Yahoo has told bidders it will get back
to them in the coming weeks about the direction it will take. Thus, the focus
on lining up CEO candidates and plans related to reviving Yahoo. Some of those
possible execs have put their hand up, while others — like Kilar — are being
solicited. In addition, some still think that Yahoo board member David Kenny
remains an internal option, especially if the board of Yahoo gets a refresh,
despite his recent announcement that he has no intention of seeking the job.
In general, this shift should not come has a surprise for the hurry-up-and-
wait board of Yahoo, which has struggled over the years to make good choices
for the Silicon Valley Internet giant. That drift has resulted in a downturn
in its prospects, even as other companies have surged. Those troubles were
brought into sharp focus in a recent report by new Goldman Sachs Internet
analyst Heath Terry, who strafed Yahoo in his “sell” recommendation. Among the
gems by an analyst whose investment bank is currently an advisor to Yahoo on
its strategic options: Yahoo simply faces too many competitive and structural
headwinds to believe any kind of meaningful turnaround is possible. While
there is significant asset value on the balance sheet and in the company’s
large, though increasingly less engaged user base, we continue to believe, as
we have since before the first Microsoft offer, that the segment of management
driving the company is intent on trying to revive Yahoo as a company,
regardless of the cost to shareholders. And, noting the need for a new CEO: We
would become more positive if we felt there was a likely event in the near
term that might unlock the value of the balance sheet assets at Yahoo. While
we believe the aggregate value of those assets is above the value reflected in
YHOO, in order to be more positive on the stock we would need some proof that
management is willing and able to take the steps necessary to unlock that
value either through a sale or distribution to shareholders. Meanwhile, the
declining profitability of the core display advertising business is masked by
a search business that continues to lose share and relies on artificial
support from Microsoft. We would become more positive on the core Yahoo
business if the company is able to find a new CEO capable of focusing the
business on its core advertising and communications opportunities,
rationalizing costs, and driving growth. This would require user growth and
especially engagement improvements in both online and mobile, improving
monetization of advertising inventory, and stabilizing its search business. In
other words: Wanted, one unicorn to work magic against increasingly
troublesome dragons. Ability to sparkle a plus. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111220/yahoo-intensifies-search-for-ceo-with-hulus-
kilar-as-dream-unicorn-candidate/feed/ 0 If Drafted, Andreessen Horowitz Will
Not Run Yahoo (But We'll Buy It on the Cheap!)
http://allthingsd.com/20111209/if-drafted-andreessen-horowitz-will-not-run-
yahoo-but-well-buy-it-cheap/ http://allthingsd.com/20111209/if-drafted-
andreessen-horowitz-will-not-run-yahoo-but-well-buy-it-cheap/#comments Fri, 09
Dec 2011 18:55:23 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=152481 Today, despite being
deep in trying to strike a deal with private equity firm Silver Lake that will
essentially give it a big say over the doings at Yahoo, Silicon Valley venture
firm Andreessen Horowitz wanted to get a few things clear on titles. In a
positively Shermanesque blog post titled “A Clarification With Respect to
Yahoo,” Marc Andreessen wrote that neither he nor partner Jeff Jordan would
become an operating exec, including CEO, acting CEO, chairman or executive
chairman at the troubled Internet giant. Of course, if the VC firm wins the
partial investment deal against other bidders, Andreessen will absolutely be a
key player in the remaking of the company. Already, he and Jordan have met
with numerous Yahoo execs as they have assessed the company. The bid by Silver
Lake and Andreessen Horowitz is about $16.50 a share for slightly less than 20
percent of the company. The group, which is competing with another bid by TPG
Capital, has a lot of other plans around reviving Yahoo and dealing with its
myriad of issues. The reason for the pronouncement, sources said (and I am
just boldly declaring myself) is because the firm is now in the middle of
raising a mega-funding round of up to $1.5 billion and limited partners are
worried about a lack of focus on its many other investments. So Marc and Jeff
are fully committed to moolah-making at the VC firm. Please pay no attention
to the whole Yahoo mishegas over in that corner there! Here’s the entire post
(full disclosure — I got the Jordan part right, but surmised that Andreessen
could become chairman if his group won the bid): A Clarification With Respect
to Yahoo From Marc Andreessen, co-founder and general partner of Andreessen
Horowitz: Over the last several weeks, there have been erroneous reports in
the press that my partner Jeff Jordan and/or I might become an operating
executive of Yahoo in some capacity. To be crystal clear, neither Jeff, nor I,
nor any of our partners at Andreessen Horowitz, are in the running for, or
would accept, any operating role at Yahoo, including CEO, acting CEO,
chairman, or executive chairman. Jeff and I have high regard for Yahoo, but we
are fully committed to our day jobs as general partners at Andreessen Horowitz
and board members of our portfolio companies. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111209/if-drafted-andreessen-horowitz-will-not-run-
yahoo-but-well-buy-it-cheap/feed/ 0 PE Firms Meeting With Yahoo Board Members
Today http://allthingsd.com/20111208/pe-firms-meeting-with-yahoo-board-
members-today/ http://allthingsd.com/20111208/pe-firms-meeting-with-yahoo-
board-members-today/#comments Thu, 08 Dec 2011 16:09:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=151883 I vow not bash you over the head too much in
an endless roundelay of posts about back-and-forth deal wrangling between
Yahoo and its possible bidders in a proposed partial investment deal. But
sources said that board chairman Roy Bostock and other members of its
strategic committee are doing more hurrying up and less waiting by setting up
a more formal meeting with the two private equity firms that have made bids.
Silver Lake’s confab is set to take place today. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111208/pe-firms-meeting-with-yahoo-board-members-
today/feed/ 0 Three Months After Bartz's Firing, It's Hurry Up and Wait at
Yahoo (A Big Honking Update) http://allthingsd.com/20111207/three-months-
after-bartzs-firing-its-hurry-up-and-wait-at-yahoo-a-big-honking-update/
http://allthingsd.com/20111207/three-months-after-bartzs-firing-its-hurry-up-
and-wait-at-yahoo-a-big-honking-update/#comments Wed, 07 Dec 2011 17:43:12
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=150675 “Let’s go. Yes, let’s go.” [They do not
move.] — Samuel Beckett, “Waiting for Godot” In Internet terms, the removal of
Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz happened a dog’s age ago. In fact, it was September 6.
Since then, it has felt like a slow slog, especially contrasting the situation
with that of another troubled Silicon Valley giant, Hewlett-Packard, which
fired its CEO Léo Apotheker and appointed a new one, Meg Whitman on September
22. Since then, in comparison, the former eBay CEO has been like the Energizer
Bunny, making a series of major and often difficult decisions, including:
Holding onto its PC unit; reaffirming its controversial deal to buy Autonomy;
promising a decision on the fate of its webOS unit within the next two weeks;
appointing new execs; and even buying a company. To be fair, Yahoo did acquire
advertising start-up Interclick. Otherwise, still no sale or investment deal.
No new CEO. No Asia resolution. And, perhaps most importantly, no clearly
articulated strategy going forward. It’s not that Yahoo’s leadership isn’t
working at it. Some fervently insist to me that there is a “plan,” as if there
is some clever game of Internet Stratego going on that I cannot possibly grok.
Mebbe — but of this I have no doubt: The Yahoo board has indeed been huffing
and puffing away, weighing and measuring, considering and debating. A lot.
Maybe I’m just too impatient. I am (ask my kids). Or maybe Yahoo’s beleaguered
employees are, one of whom just wrote me plaintively, “unreal how they can
drag this out,” in what has become a common refrain up and down the ranks. Or
maybe it’s the Asian partners, Alibaba Group and SoftBank, who are antsy and
have considered a variety of nuclear options in order to get back stakes Yahoo
holds in them. Said one: “The strategy seems to be to frustrate and exhaust us
into submission.” Or, finally, maybe it’s the newly frustrated recent bidders
for a partial stake in Yahoo, Silver Lake and TPG Capital. Declared one to me
after I warned that Yahoo might, in fact, drag the proceedings out longer than
you might expect: “I thought you were kidding.” Nope, welcome to the Yahoo
waiting game, PE guys! So, to help us all get through it, here’s a quick
update primer on what’s what on the various fronts: Who’s in Charge Here?
Technically, it is the Yahoo board, which is aided by interim CEO Tim Morse.
First, a word about Morse: By all accounts, he is doing a very good job as
temporary head honcho — calming the troubled company, making swift decisions
about daily operating issues and being a generally nice dude to deal with.
“He’s Yahoo’s no-drama Obama, in comparison to what was happening before,”
said one exec, in reference to the more volatile regime under Bartz. Still,
despite his very pleasant all-hands meetings, such as one earlier this week,
Morse had previously been Yahoo’s CFO and not an Internet-savvy visionary to
give the company inspiration. No insult intended, but he’s the accountant guy.
To be fair, he is not meant to be the visionary, but many at the company are
yearning for exactly that. A role that is now being taken up again by co-
founder, former CEO and director Jerry Yang, who dozens of employees tell me
is unusually involved in operational details these days for a board member. I
get reports of sightings of him all the livelong day: Jerry in demand-side
advertising confab! Jerry chitchatting with entrepreneurs from a possible
start-up acquisition! Jerry weighing in on a variety of products. Look, over
in the cubicle, it’s Jerry! This is seen by Yahoo employees as a good thing
and also a bad thing, since it’s hard to be running your little divisional
show at Yahoo with the dude who invented it all looking over your shoulder,
even if he means well. People naturally defer to Yang, the 800-pound Web icon
in the room. But, given the overwhelming state of stasis at Yahoo now — “No
one can do anything until we find out how the story ends,” said one staffer —
and employees eying the exits, no power at Yahoo really matters but the board.
You know, the board that has gotten the company to this moment of crisis and
profound ennui, which is its own particularly ironic irony. To better
understand the power dynamics on the board, above is a little chart for you to
peruse to give you an idea of which independent board member is running what
key committee. The only truly important one is the Transactions and Strategic
Planning committee, which is headed by Intuit President and CEO Brad Smith and
includes former Akamai President (and former Yahoo CEO candidate) David Kenny,
top HP exec Vyomesh Joshi and other guy Gary Wilson. And, in completely
visible shadow form, Yang. Multiple sources close to the situation said he has
been a key force in the strategery around a possible sale or investment. This
has caused not more than a little tension among board members, but everyone
seems to like the much described nicest-man-in-the-room, Smith, and hopes his
cool head will prevail. Another important part of the board is the Nominating
and Corporate Governance committee run by Patti Hart, who is energetically and
simultaneously — if pointlessly — in search of a capable new Yahoo CEO. Or, as
I like to call this mythical person: The Unicorn. The Deal As I and many
others have previously reported, there are bids on the table for partial
investments in Yahoo by two very powerful private equity firms, Silver Lake
and TPG Capital. It’s a PE rumble, with a side of Microsoft financial backing!
(I think Silver Lake’s Egon Durban makes a very nice Riff, while Microsoft’s
Steve Ballmer is the perfect Officer Krupke.) My fervent wishes for some
figurative and dance-accompanied knife-play aside, the bids are essentially
the same in general and different in particular. Silver Lake is offering about
$16.50 a share, while TPG is dangling a tiny bit more. Silver Lake has power
entrepreneur and VC Marc Andreessen on its side, while TPG is trying to get
Silicon Valley fave investor and start-up whisperer Reid Hoffman of Greylock
Partners and LinkedIn on its team. Both have ideas on CEOs, strategy and what
to do about the Asian assets. This type of deal could happen suddenly and
you’ll hear about it quick, since the losing side will immediately trash it to
the media. As you might expect, each director has their favorite PE firm, with
some not liking Andreessen, some thinking the TPG bid is a little light, some
for a whole-company deal and some wanting Yahoo to hire its own CEO and run
the place itself. Of course, the last one shows a disturbing level of denial
and should be a nonstarter, given the board’s abysmal record on CEO choice and
its riding of Yahoo to this sad point in its storied history. Here’s what to
expect on the PE front: A lot of wrangling behind the scenes with frequent
leaks to the media about what each side wants and will not yield on. CEO
choice or no CEO choice, that is the question! Also a big factor are Yahoo’s
major shareholders, few of whom like the partial investment deal, which is
known as a PIPE (Private Investment in Public Equity), because of the
insiderness of it all and because they prefer a whole-company sale at a higher
price. There is also pressure from activist shareholders like Daniel Loeb of
Third Point, who has attacked Yang and others on the board and is ready to
pounce with a proxy fight if Yahoo tries to override shareholders too
egregiously. And, of course, the inevitable lawsuits over any arrangement that
seems to block a whole-company bid. That said, such a mega-deal seems
unlikely, since it is too pricey and despite a lot of noise that Yahoo’s Asian
partners were ready to strike with a takeover in order to get back Yahoo’s big
stakes in their companies. That’s kind of like buying a store to get back the
cool pair of shoes you sold, but bankers love to scheme up this stuff. While
it certainly could happen, it would be a bear of a deal. Perhaps more like
Yogi Bear, hopelessly angling for a tasty pic-a-nik basket — but grrrr anyway.
But perhaps the biggest factor in all of this mishegas is time. There is none
on a lot of levels, most especially the increasing level of brain drain and
drift at Yahoo. After the New Year dawns, this is going to spin right out of
control and amount to the biggest internal challenge Yahoo faces. An Asian
Solution As I and others have reported, Yahoo is entertaining yet another
proposal to sell all or part of its Asian assets back to the companies, which
make up a bulk of its market valuation. The relationship between Yahoo and its
Asian partners has long been fraught, and today the difficulty of reaching an
agreement remains a vexing issue. That’s because it is hard and complex and
because no one wants to do what the other side wants. I am no tax attorney,
but it seems as if Yahoo will ultimately come to some deal with China’s
Alibaba and Japan’s SoftBank, which could include big investors like Russia’s
DST Global. And, as I reported last week, the Asian partners want to strike a
deal with the current board rather than lose leverage with a much cannier new
owner. It’s a tough decision in all aspects to strike, but would remove the
focus on the fact that Yahoo’s most valuable asset is something it is not
running and simply holds due to a good stock trade in years past. Years past
should be the operative thought here, since the Asian assets have nothing to
do with what Yahoo needs to do with its core U.S. and global brand. You know,
the thing that allowed them to buy those lucrative Asian assets in the first
place? Strategery And that’s the crux of all this, isn’t it? Yahoo needs a new
strategy and fast. Or it needs to clarify and hone its current strategies
around advertising and media and define itself once and for all. While it
often touts itself as a premier digital media company, it’s still not clear
exactly what Yahoo is saying by that. In fact, incredibly, sources told me
that the board was still wrangling over the tired issue of what Yahoo is at
its most recent meeting — essentially, is it a products company or a media
company? If I had to listen to that who-am-I-anyway debate again, I think I
would scream, given how many important Web trends that Yahoo has whiffed in
recent years, many of which were right in its own wheelhouse. How much damage
this has caused to Yahoo’s core business is a critical one to determine, with
many feeling the situation is too far gone to revive it and others confident
that this is simply an issue of poor execution. I am in the middle on this
one, but all the indicators of Yahoo’s business have long been heading in the
wrong direction, and results in the next quarter are expected to underline
this even more. Thus, the board’s navel-gazing at this point is untoward,
considering that it is presiding over the possibility of a sale that should
not have had to happen in the first place. While it is not quite a fire sale,
it’s no cause for celebration at all the attention, either. In fact, it’s also
pointless, since — if this all resolves as it should — the current Yahoo board
will not be the one determining the company’s future any longer. Remember
that: This group should and will be gone for the most part. Yahoo shareholders
and employees can hope, at least. Then, it will be up to the next group of
leaders to make the very hard choices — including what are likely to be
massive layoffs and radical surgery on its offerings — for what’s to come
next. In the end, that is all that will matter. Until then, as usual, you’ll
have to sit tight. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20111207/three-months-after-
bartzs-firing-its-hurry-up-and-wait-at-yahoo-a-big-honking-update/feed/ 0 The
Yahoo Lawsuits Begin: Put the Non-Blabby Deals in Your PIPE and Smoke It
http://allthingsd.com/20111205/the-yahoo-lawsuits-begin-put-the-non-blabby-
deals-in-your-pipe-and-smoke-it/ http://allthingsd.com/20111205/the-yahoo-
lawsuits-begin-put-the-non-blabby-deals-in-your-pipe-and-smoke-it/#comments
Mon, 05 Dec 2011 17:25:33 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=150304 What took so
long? Actually, it did not take any time at all for someone to start legal
proceedings against the current effort by Yahoo to sell itself. In this case,
no surprise, it is aimed directly at the how of doing it. In an unusual
injunction request, M&C; Partners is seeking to enjoin the Silicon Valley
Internet giant from using its stringent “no cross talk” rule for its potential
buyers to limit possible bidding syndicates. “The No Cross Talk Provision
constitutes an unreasonable anti-takeover device, designed to entrench and
favor [Yahoo co-founder, director and major shareholder Jerry] Yang and the
current Board,” reads the legal filing, in part. In addition, M&C; does not
like what it calls a “Minority Stake Promise,” which it alleges Yahoo is
“requiring those who sign the Confidentiality Agreement to use any information
they receive to confine themselves to a bid for only a minority stake.” That
refers to the fantastically named PIPE deals — or Private Investment in Public
Equity — that PE firms like Silver Lake and TPG Capital have just offered.
These are bids to buy 19.9 percent of Yahoo, which will essentially give them
a lot of power. Both allegations are, well, exactly what Yahoo is doing, even
if it’s not for the filing’s stated nefarious reason. Thus, M&C; doesn’t think
that’s okay, presumably because it wants investors to be able to make a deal
without Yahoo’s bossy rules. To be clear, Yahoo is named in lawsuits all the
time for a wide variety of things, such as a case in which one group is
alleging it botched a deal with the Alibaba Group over its Alipay controversy
to another alleging the price it paid for in its recent $270 million
acquisition of Interclick was too low. And so it is here, one of many to come,
I suspect. In this one, there’s also a class-action request and various and
sundry bashing of Yang, which you can read below: yhoo ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111205/the-yahoo-lawsuits-begin-put-the-non-blabby-
deals-in-your-pipe-and-smoke-it/feed/ 0 Marc Andreessen vs. Reid Hoffman in
Yahoo Savior Face-Off? Not Yet. (But Delicious to Imagine.)
http://allthingsd.com/20111201/the-golden-geek-vs-the-start-up-whisperer-in-
yahoo-savior-faceoff-not-yet-but-delicious-to-imagine/
http://allthingsd.com/20111201/the-golden-geek-vs-the-start-up-whisperer-in-
yahoo-savior-faceoff-not-yet-but-delicious-to-imagine/#comments Thu, 01 Dec
2011 10:23:15 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=149087 Last night, the New York
Times dropped a juicy little tidbit into its everything-but-the-kitchen-sink
daily update of the board mishegas at Yahoo around the deliberations yesterday
over two competing private equity bids to buy a partial stake in the company.
No, not the one about Jeff Jordan — former eBay exec, OpenTable CEO and now VC
at Andreessen Horowitz — possibly taking a big role at Yahoo if the firm’s bid
with Silver Lake prevailed — which was mysteriously removed very soon after it
posted (’cuz he will not, so good move, NYT!) I mean the one about the venture
firm’s big-kahuna partner, Marc Andreessen — who will indeed take a board seat
and play a strong role in Yahoo’s future if his bid wins — getting a possible
competitor in the Silicon Valley savior section of the ongoing show. That
would be in the form of Reid Hoffman, the well-known entrepreneur, VC and
angel investor, who the Times said had talked with TPG Capital, Silver Lake’s
rival in the Yahoo bidding, about becoming a possible partner. Wrote the
Times: “TPG has held discussions with Greylock Partners, another venture
capital firm, about a possible alignment, two people said. TPG is hoping to
draw on the expertise of Reid Hoffman, one of Greylock’s partners and the
founder of the professional social network LinkedIn, these people said.”
Translation: If Silver Lake has a tech icon of substance on its team to give
uber-geek appeal to its offer — dagnabbit — then TPG was going to raise with
another one, whom the very same Times reporter who wrote last night’s article
recently nicknamed “The Start-Up Whisperer” in a recent glowing profile of
Hoffman. While I am still trying to grok what a start-up whisperer exactly
means (and how someone as self-effacing as Hoffman would react to such a twee
moniker without snickering), it’s a move that has likely already irritated
Silver Lake. After all, TPG aiming at nabbing Hoffman is akin to two crazy
neighbors trying to one-up each other in holiday-lighting lawn decor. (You
have a singing Santa, so I’ll have a singing Santa — and I might even add a
Lady Gaga-themed crèche for good measure!) But it’s not a bad instinct,
either, to get your own live-action Silicon Valley legend, even if it is only
half true in Hoffman’s case. Because, according to sources who know such
things, while Hoffman and TPG have had conversations, there have been no
commitments, and nothing is close to being agreed on to link the pair. That
could certainly change, and quickly, but Hoffman or Greylock aren’t currently
in TPG’s proposal to Yahoo. That’s in contrast to Andreessen, who is all in (I
am not even going to bother with “sources said” here, since everyone and my
mother has seen the proposal) with Silver Lake on the deal to purchase 19.9
percent of Yahoo for about $16.50 a share. As I reported earlier this week,
for Silver Lake’s money and expertise in fixing broken things, the bid
includes: Silver Lake getting three board seats; cash going to a buyback of
stock or granting of a dividend to shareholders; the ability to select a CEO;
approval of its strategic plan for Yahoo, and its solution to come to terms
with Yahoo’s unhappy Asian partners; and all the purple wearables you could
ever hope for (perhaps Yahoo’s best asset, IMHO, especially worn by such
obviously cool dudes, as seen here). Also, controversial Yahoo co-founder
Jerry Yang gets to stay around on the board (but only if he becomes very, very
quiet, so as not to rile the activist shareholders). TPG’s bid is less formed,
although its price is slightly higher. And the PE firm has yet to check the
“Big Geek Included” box. Hence, the floating of Hoffman as a contender to take
on Andreessen, who was once dubbed the “Golden Geek” by Time magazine. I hope
TPG does, soon, since what a matchup it would be! But, for now at least, the
pair — who share big investments in a range of Web companies, most especially
Facebook (Andreessen is on the board of the social networking giant, and
Hoffman was an early investor and adviser) — are at peace. Dagnabbit. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20111201/the-golden-geek-vs-the-start-up-whisperer-in-
yahoo-savior-faceoff-not-yet-but-delicious-to-imagine/feed/ 0 Yahoo Stock Gets
Gaslit by Bidders Dangling Phantom $20-a-Share Bid
http://allthingsd.com/20111130/yahoo-stock-gets-gaslit-by-bidders-trying-to-
thwart-other-bidders/ http://allthingsd.com/20111130/yahoo-stock-gets-gaslit-
by-bidders-trying-to-thwart-other-bidders/#comments Thu, 01 Dec 2011 06:03:48
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=148966 What an amazing coincidence. On the very
day Yahoo’s board is considering actual bids from two private equity firms
interested in deals to buy close to 20 percent of the company for between
$16.50 and $17.50 a share, comes a spate of eerily similar breathless media
postings that there’s another bid in the making for $20! That’s totes better,
right? I mean, how can Yahoo’s directors accept a real live lesser-priced bid
now when there’s a prettier one in the fog just ahead? No, really, it’s there
— if you squint really, really hard. Except it’s not even close, when you
actually check with two of the key members of the group of alleged buyers,
which would apparently be Blackstone, Bain Capital and Yahoo’s Asian partners,
Alibaba Group and SoftBank. Sources close to Blackstone and Alibaba said while
there have been talks, which have been previously reported weeks ago here and
elsewhere, there is no bid in the offing that is close to fruition and at that
price. In an unusual public statement, in fact, Alibaba’s John Spelich said
flatly: “Alibaba Group has not made a decision to be part of a whole-company
bid for Yahoo.” This from a company whose voluble CEO Jack Ma is prone to
making giant and noisy speeches to signal his interest in finding a way — any
way — to get back shares of the Chinese Internet giant from Yahoo. Not this
time, and several sources close to Alibaba reiterated that it was nowhere near
close to any bid as yet and that a price is still up in the air. In addition,
sources added, Alibaba might decide to work with another PE group, such as
Providence Equity. In addition, sources noted that if Alibaba could strike an
adequate deal with private equity bidders to get a large chunk of the stake
back, it would be highly preferable to a hostile takeover of Yahoo that could
end in tears and little else. “The threat of a takeover is more useful than
the damage an actual takeover would cause for everyone,” said one person close
to the situation. “No one wants this to be unfriendly.” So why the rumors —
doubtlessly being spread around by hopelessly cynical Wall Street types
interested only in stock manipulation — surfacing today? Simple: To get some
easy-to-play media outlet to bite, report it as speculative fact and cause the
stock of Yahoo to take flight tomorrow. Hey, it could happen! Sadly, this
junior-league trick has already worked — Yahoo shares were up a dollar to
$16.72 in after-hours trading tonight. It is likely to go even higher
tomorrow, which could cause the board of Yahoo to delay accepting either of
the partial bids from Silver Lake or TPG Capital, even if they were the best
thing for the company and its employees. Except that the job of the Yahoo
board is to evaluate what’s before them and not what is perhaps, someday,
soon, wait-by-the-phone, really soon, I promise is going to be delivered. In
fact, several sources noted that it’s not clear if the Yahoo board has even
asked for parties to submit whole-company bids yet. When and if Yahoo’s board
does that and if something better actually does come down the pike, with a
much fatter price tag of $20 or more, then the directors can mull that over.
That would be the prudent thing to do for the company, its employees and its
shareholders, even if Yahoo’s stock gets a temporary lift now. Maybe I am just
a hopeless Silicon Valley romantic and not a hardened Wall Street M&A; type,
but the survival of Yahoo is the real point here, rather than the lining of
bankers’ already fee-stuffed pockets. And anything other than that is just
fog. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20111130/yahoo-stock-gets-gaslit-by-bidders-
trying-to-thwart-other-bidders/feed/ 0