Adaptly Adaptly Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram Linkedin
Linkedin Pinterest Pinterest Email Previous Next Search Clock Company
Solutions Insights News Careers Contact Us Login Join Adaptly and Mazda at
Social Media Week LA Reading Time: 1 Minute Join us at Social Media Week Los
Angeles on Thursday, June 14, for a session on How Brands Without a Clear Path
to Purchase Can Reach Users at the Right Time. Danielle Shamos, Adaptly’s VP
of Revenue West Coast, will be speaking with Stacy Fairbanks, Manager Media
and Analytics at Mazda. For many brands, the customer journey has changed.
This is especially true for the automotive industry, where people in the
market for a new car can barrel through most of the purchase funnel without
ever setting foot in a dealership. Since the path to purchase is no longer
linear and the customer journey varies by individual, brands have to master
the art of dynamic creative on social to reach users at all stages of the
funnel. In this session at SMW LA, Adaptly and Mazda will discuss: Making the
most of branding dollars not tied to actual sales How to customize creative
for in-market and out-of-market users The impact of the market on your brand’s
social strategies See more on Social Media Week’s website > Danielle Shamos VP
of Revenue Danielle brings years of digital strategy and management experience
across social and search. She enjoys immersing herself in new technology in
this fast and ever changing industry. Outside of the office she enjoys
travelling to new and undiscovered places as well exploring the nooks of L.A.
and crossing restaurants off of Jonathan Gold’s L.A. 101 list. She’s also an
avid fitness enthusiast and has recently started designing jewelry. When June
14, 2018 12:15 pm Where Social Media Week LA The Eli and Edythe Broad Stage
1310 11th St. Santa Monica, CA 90401 RSVP Office Los Angeles Share Categories
Blog Events Back To Blog > Fill out form to access download Submit Let's Start
Something Remarkable Today Contact Us Keep up with the latest advertising
trends and insights. No spam, we promise. Comments Subscribe Be Remarkable
General Inquiries contactus@adaptly.com 212-300-8599, ext. 417 Media
Information pr@adaptly.com New York 386 Park Ave South Floor 17 New York, NY
10016 London 20 Midtown 20 Procter Street London, WC1V 6NX Chicago 747 N
LaSalle Drive Suite 500 Chicago, IL 60654 Los Angeles 1411 5th Street Suite
405 Santa Monica, CA 90401 San Francisco 981 Mission Street San Francisco, CA
94103 Detroit 1449 Woodward Avenue Detroit, MI 48226 Careers News Partners Our
Vision Privacy Policy Contact