News Apple R&D;: The "R" Stands for Rumor Published on October 13, 2008 by
John Paczkowski One of the investments we make is to introduce new products
that initially cost more because they deliver an entirely new level of value
to the customer. Then we ride the cost curves down with value engineering and
volume manufacturing, leaving us far head of our competitors. We have some of
these types of investments in front of us that I canât discuss.” — Apple
Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook, July 21, 2008 The media will gather tomorrow
at Apple’s Cupertino, Calif., headquarters for an invitation-only
event–presumably about updates to its MacBook and MacBook Pro lines. And as
with every Apple (AAPL) product launch, tomorrow’s has been preceded by
feverish speculation about what form, exactly, those updates will take. Among
the rumors currently making the rounds: Apple will uncrate a new line of
MacBooks whose cases are carved from a single brick of aircraft-grade
aluminum. Apple’s refreshed MacBook line will include a machine priced at
below $1000, perhaps even as low as $800. The new MacBooks will feature glass,
multi-touch trackpads and LED-backlit displays. They’ll swap out Intel’s
chipset–not the central processor–for Nvidia’s MCP7A, which reportedly blows
the doors off Intel’s G45 in the graphics department. Blu-ray will be offered
as an option on high-end models. Finally, Apple’s new line of portables will
include the unmatchable “state-of-the-art new product” to which Apple CFO
Peter Oppenheimer and COO Tim Cook referred earlier this year, and that
product will be a tablet. Something along the lines of the “MacBook Touch”
described by MacDailyNews back in July. Think MacBook screen, possibly a bit
smaller, in glass with iPhone-like but fuller-featured multi-touch. Gesture
library. Full Mac OS X. This is why they bought P.A. Semi. Possibly with
Immersion’s haptic tech. Slot-loading SuperDrive. Accelerometer. GPS. … App
Store-compatible, able to run Mac apps, too.” An interesting spread of rumors,
some quite likely, others improbable … and yet entirely plausible because,
after all, it’s Apple we’re talking about. We’ll find out which of these
proves true tomorrow at 10 a.m. PDT. I’ll be covering the event live, so be
sure pay us a visit tomorrow. Return to: Apple R&D;: The "R" Stands for Rumor
URL: http://allthingsd.com/20081013/apple-rd-the-r-stands-for-rumor/ Brought
to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All
Rights Reserved.