Skip to main content Free Trial 800.303.6346 Watch a demo of the Business
Planning Cloud. Adaptive Insight's cloud-based planning system helps you make
better decisions, faster–with less headaches, more control, and increased
confidence. Watch free online demo Watch the Online Demo Videos We respect
your privacy and will never sell, rent, or share your personal information.
Privacy Policy See what active planning looks like in real life. Build
interactive dashboards and drill into the data for insights Run multiple what-
if scenarios and sensitivity analyses Work seamlessly between the browser and
Excel–all connected to the cloud Automate data integration with your
transactional systems for up-to-date forecasting Build 1-click refreshable
board books, spreadsheets, and presentations Demos Customer Reviews This is
the block subtitle 4,000+ customers enjoy the benefits of active planning.
Frank Jiang Manager - FP&A;, Mitchell International Love the shared
functionality and visibility that Adaptive provides. Being able to see how
changes affect the bottom line on the fly and the ability to audit previous
changes makes collaboration a breeze. Harry Vasels CFO, SCAV A very flexible
tool that gives great visibility to the organization... I cannot say enough
about how Adaptive has been a truly effective budgeting, planning &
forecasting tool. Jimmy Roybal Director of FP&A;, Tealium I'm a veteran to
FP&A;, and have used Excel, Oracle Hyperion/Essbase, and several other tools.
And this by far is the best. It has been the easiest to use... and doesn't
require any assistance from IT or Developers. Privacy Policy 800.303.6346
Contact Us Terms of Service ©2018 Adaptive Insights. All rights reserved. 3350
W. Bayshore Road, Suite 200, Palo Alto, CA 94303 ×Close