AllThingsD » Voices http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000 en-
US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 HP Affirms Higher-End Layoffs Figure
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/hp-affirms-higher-end-layoffs-figure/
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/hp-affirms-higher-end-layoffs-figure/#comments
Tue, 31 Dec 2013 17:38:45 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=382222 Hewlett-
Packard Co. confirmed it has increased by 5,000 the number of layoffs it plans
to implement under the restructuring plan it adopted in May 2012, bringing the
expected number of job cuts to 34,000. When the company first announced the
plan, it targeted the number of job eliminations at 27,000 by October 2014 and
later raised the figure to 29,000. But HP had suggested at its analyst meeting
in October and again during its quarterly earnings call in late November that
the cuts would affect 33,000 to 34,000 people. Read the rest of this post on
the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131231/hp-affirms-higher-end-
layoffs-figure/feed/ 0 Apple Feud Deepens With Court-Appointed Monitor
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/apple-feud-deepens-with-court-appointed-
monitor/ http://allthingsd.com/20131231/apple-feud-deepens-with-court-
appointed-monitor/#comments Tue, 31 Dec 2013 11:22:55 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=382196 A feud between Apple Inc. and a lawyer
appointed by a federal court judge to monitor the company’s e-book pricing
reform became even more acrimonious Monday. Michael Bromwich, the lawyer
picked as Apple’s monitor, said in court documents filed Monday that Apple’s
characterization of his team’s activities as a “roving investigation” in fact
“bear no relation whatsoever to the activities we have attempted to conduct.”
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131231/apple-feud-deepens-with-court-appointed-
monitor/feed/ 0 The NSA and the Corrosion of Silicon Valley
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/the-nsa-and-silicon-valley/
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/the-nsa-and-silicon-valley/#comments Mon, 30
Dec 2013 23:57:41 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=382160 I believe that the
people who work at the NSA are patriots. They devote their considerable
intellects to preserve, protect, and defend the people of the United States. I
wish their patriotism + brainpower would do the same for the U.S.
Constitution. But those issues are getting plenty of ink elsewhere. My concern
is more personal and local: The NSA’s version of patriotism is corroding
Silicon Valley. Integrity of our products, creative freedom of talented
people, and trust with our users are the casualties. The dolphin in the tuna
net is us — our industry, our work, and the social fabric of our community.
Product integrity is doomed when the NSA involves itself in the product
development process. The scope of NSA’s activity here is unknowable. But what
I hear from founders and other investors — never mind Reuters’ reporting about
RSA Security, and Spiegel’s about backdoors in networking products — is beyond
my worst expectations. President Obama’s Review Group on Intelligence learned
enough about the matter to give it a prominent place in their Dec. 12 report.
A key recommendation: “the US Government should … not in any way subvert,
undermine, weaken, or make vulnerable generally available commercial
software.” It’s incredible to me that this needs to be said at all. That it
was phrased as a recommendation by a panel of professors and retired
government officials rather than as an imperative truth shouted by Silicon
Valley itself is sad. Truthful products come from the union of founders’
values and users’ needs. Letting NSA add “features” strips integrity away; it
creates deceitful, incoherent products. Our ambition must be the opposite.
Inside our companies and research centers, talented minds are being
conscripted into surveillance. Think about the software developers who wrote
the code behind your email service. Or the team who built the guts of a
blogging service’s geolocation features. Not one of them chose to work for the
NSA. But their work has been co-opted, effectively turned into surveillance
tools. The freedom of talented people to work for whom they choose, building
what they choose, for the purpose they choose is being deleted. This is
another deep violation of our community’s social fabric. All this leads back
to trust. Billions of people let Silicon Valley into their daily lives and
they hug it close. They trust our products to find information, to get work
done, to talk to each other, to buy and sell stuff, and to have fun. That
trust is a decades-old endowment built up by inventor-founders from Robert
Noyce and Gordon Moore through to the present day. The magic of compound
growth works in our favor when trust is accumulating. But now we are making
trust withdrawals every day as people around the world learn how the NSA has
woven surveillance, search, and seizure into and around our products. This is
the painful flip side of compound growth: The trust withdrawals compound, too.
Silicon Valley’s promise to people is simple and compelling: “We’ll build a
bunch of things. Try our work; keep what you love, dump what you don’t love.
We’ll learn from it and build on the stuff that you like best.” Sadly, the NSA
undermines the promise at its foundation. We do have options. Modify our user
agreements to reinforce users’ property rights and expectations of privacy in
their data to address the so-called “third-party doctrine.” Make architecture
and encryption decisions that defend against upstream surveillance at the
backbone. Appeal objectionable collection orders under Section 215 of the
Patriot Act to the full Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), the
FISC Court of Review, and the Supreme Court, if necessary. Appeal National
Security Letters (NSLs) in federal court if you believe warrantless requests
for information are toxic to your values and your work. All of us — founders,
CEOs, boards, citizens — are allowed to hold opinions about what is right, and
we can exercise our rights and freedoms to act accordingly. God knows we take
full advantage of the rights and freedoms in the tax code; we should be at
least as creative and engaged when it comes to existential threats to our
work. Smart patriots of the NSA are struggling with a basic question: Of all
the ways to get a critical job done, which ways line up with our founding
values? The NSA’s answer is deadly to Silicon Valley’s life’s work. That is
100 percent unacceptable. Michael Dearing (@mcgd) is a venture capitalist in
Silicon Valley and a consulting associate professor at Stanford University.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131230/the-nsa-and-silicon-valley/feed/ 0 Acer
Sees Senior Executive Departures http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-
senior-executive-departures/ http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-senior-
executive-departures/#comments Mon, 30 Dec 2013 16:33:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=382065 Acer Inc. said Monday that three senior
executives had recently left the company and some of them won’t be replaced as
the embattled personal-computer maker tries to keep costs low. The management
changes are the latest of Acer’s efforts to pull itself out of a major crisis
as sales of tablets and smartphones eclipse those of personal computers. Read
the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131230/acer-sees-senior-executive-departures/feed/ 0
LG to Unveil webOS-Powered TV http://allthingsd.com/20131230/lg-to-unveil-
webos-powered-tv/ http://allthingsd.com/20131230/lg-to-unveil-webos-powered-
tv/#comments Mon, 30 Dec 2013 13:00:15 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=382063
South Korea’s LG Electronics Inc. will soon take the veils off a television
model that will run on the webOS operating system, highlighting its ambition
of creating a prominent operating system for so-called smart TVs. LG bought
webOS, a mobile-device operating system, from Hewlett-Packard Co. earlier this
year. The operating system was originally developed by Palm Inc. to power
smartphones that would compete with the likes of Apple Inc.’s iPhones. H-P
acquired Palm in 2010 and used webOS to power a tablet and its smartphone
models. But the system failed to gain traction with the developers who write
apps for devices and the devices didn’t sell well. Read the rest of this post
on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131230/lg-to-unveil-webos-
powered-tv/feed/ 0 Google, Apple Forge Auto Ties
http://allthingsd.com/20131229/google-apple-forge-auto-ties/
http://allthingsd.com/20131229/google-apple-forge-auto-ties/#comments Mon, 30
Dec 2013 04:45:45 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=382004 Technology giants
Google and Apple are about to expand their battle for digital supremacy to a
new front: The automobile. Next week at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las
Vegas, Google and German auto maker Audi plan to announce that they are
working together to develop in-car entertainment and information systems that
are based on Google’s Android software, people familiar with the matter said.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131229/google-apple-forge-auto-ties/feed/ 0 NSA
Struggles to Make Sense of Flood of Surveillance Data
http://allthingsd.com/20131228/nsa-struggles-to-make-sense-of-flood-of-
surveillance-data/ http://allthingsd.com/20131228/nsa-struggles-to-make-sense-
of-flood-of-surveillance-data/#comments Sun, 29 Dec 2013 02:00:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381962 William Binney, creator of some of the
computer code used by the National Security Agency to snoop on Internet
traffic around the world, delivered an unusual message at a recent privacy
conference to an audience worried that the spy agency knows too much. It knows
so much, he said, that it can’t understand what it has. “What they are doing
is making themselves dysfunctional by taking all this data,” Mr. Binney said.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131228/nsa-struggles-to-make-sense-of-flood-of-
surveillance-data/feed/ 0 Twitter Reverses Rally as Shares Dive
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/twitter-reverses-rally-as-shares-dive/
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/twitter-reverses-rally-as-shares-dive/#comments
Sat, 28 Dec 2013 00:00:28 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=381881 Twitter Inc.’s
rally came to an abrupt halt on Friday. Shares of the microblogging site
tumbled $9.56, or 13 percent, to $63.75, taking a dent out of the big gains
that accumulated since the San Francisco company’s initial public offering in
early November. The drop wiped away about $5.2 billion in Twitter’s market
capitalization, or a little less than twice that of J.C. Penney Co. An analyst
downgrade and worries about the stock’s valuation ignited Friday’s drop,
burning many of the investors who had piled into the stock in recent days.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/twitter-reverses-rally-as-shares-dive/feed/ 0
Judge Says NSA Phone Surveillance Is Legal
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/judge-says-nsa-phone-surveillance-is-legal/
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/judge-says-nsa-phone-surveillance-is-
legal/#comments Fri, 27 Dec 2013 17:32:14 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381624 A federal judge in New York ruled Friday that
the National Security Agency’s broad collection of U.S. phone-customer data is
lawful, dismissing a complaint filed by the American Civil Liberties Union.
The decision by U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III came just days after
another federal judge, U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington, ruled
that the NSA program “almost certainly” violated constitutional protections
against unreasonable searches. Read the rest of this post on the original site
» ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131227/judge-says-nsa-phone-surveillance-is-
legal/feed/ 0 QOTD: Sneaky Snaps http://allthingsd.com/20131227/qotd-sneaky-
snaps/ http://allthingsd.com/20131227/qotd-sneaky-snaps/#comments Fri, 27 Dec
2013 16:00:29 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=381612 Back when we had cameras
that weren’t in our phones, it would be really strange to just walk up to
someone and take a picture of them, or kind of place the camera on the table
and try to sneak a picture of someone as they’re ordering food or something. —
Kristen Wiig, talking about the “weird phenomenon” of
ubiquitious/surreptitious photographs, on Vulture.com ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/qotd-sneaky-snaps/feed/ 0 Technology Fuels New
Police Cruiser http://allthingsd.com/20131226/technology-fuels-new-police-
cruiser/ http://allthingsd.com/20131226/technology-fuels-new-police-
cruiser/#comments Thu, 26 Dec 2013 22:57:44 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381172 To the untrained eye, it looks like almost any
other New York Police Department cruiser combing the city’s streets — but this
squad car has just as much brains as it does brawn. It is the department’s
prototype “smart car,” outfitted with the latest gadgets in public safety. It
has two infrared monitors mounted on the trunk that record any numbers it sees
— such as license plates and addresses. It has surveillance cameras and air
sensors capable of sending real-time information to police headquarters. The
NYPD says it is the cruiser of the very near future. Read the rest of this
post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131226/technology-
fuels-new-police-cruiser/feed/ 0 LightSquared Files Bankruptcy-Exit Plan
Backed by Fortress, Melody http://allthingsd.com/20131226/lightsquared-files-
bankruptcy-exit-plan-backed-by-fortress-melody/
http://allthingsd.com/20131226/lightsquared-files-bankruptcy-exit-plan-backed-
by-fortress-melody/#comments Thu, 26 Dec 2013 19:09:58 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381130 Wireless venture LightSquared Inc. is seeking
to exit bankruptcy protection with backing from private-equity firm Fortress
Investment Group LLC and Melody Capital Advisors LLC. LightSquared, which has
been at the center of a fight for control between hedge fund manager Phil
Falcone and Dish Network Corp.’s Charlie Ergen, filed a new plan to exit
Chapter 11 proceedings on Tuesday night, with more than $4 billion of debt-and
equity backing from Fortress, Melody and existing investors J.P. Morgan Chase
& Co. and Mr. Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners. Read the rest of this post
on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131226/lightsquared-files-
bankruptcy-exit-plan-backed-by-fortress-melody/feed/ 0 Late Surge in Web
Buying Blindsides UPS, Retailers http://allthingsd.com/20131226/late-surge-in-
web-buying-blindsides-ups-retailers/ http://allthingsd.com/20131226/late-
surge-in-web-buying-blindsides-ups-retailers/#comments Thu, 26 Dec 2013
12:05:21 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=381048 A surge in online shopping this
holiday season left stores breaking promises to deliver packages by Christmas,
suggesting that retailers and shipping companies still haven’t fully figured
out consumers’ buying patterns in the Internet era. Companies from Amazon.com
Inc. to Kohl’s Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., having promised to deliver
items before Dec. 25, missed some delivery target dates. Read the rest of this
post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131226/late-surge-in-
web-buying-blindsides-ups-retailers/feed/ 0 Online Sales Jumped 37 Percent
During Weekend http://allthingsd.com/20131224/online-sales-jumped-37-percent-
during-weekend/ http://allthingsd.com/20131224/online-sales-jumped-37-percent-
during-weekend/#comments Tue, 24 Dec 2013 22:17:24 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380986 Retailers’ holiday sales have so far proved
disappointing, but online sales again are a bright spot. After mall-traffic
tracker ShopperTrak on Monday reported a 3.1 percent decline in holiday in-
store sales and a 21 percent plunge in store traffic in the crucial shopping
week ended Sunday, additional data again suggest a much brighter picture
online. Total online sales from Friday through Sunday surged 37 percent year-
to-year, with mobile traffic representing two-fifths of all online traffic,
according to IBM Digital Analytics. Consumers buying from their mobile devices
sent mobile sales up 53 percent, accounting for 21.5% of all online sales, IBM
said. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/online-sales-jumped-37-percent-during-
weekend/feed/ 0 It's the Thought That Counts (Comic)
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/its-the-thought-that-counts-comic/
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/its-the-thought-that-counts-comic/#comments
Tue, 24 Dec 2013 19:55:44 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380970 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/its-the-thought-that-counts-comic/feed/ 0
Scores of Music Services Stream Into Crowded Field
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/scores-of-music-services-stream-into-crowded-
field/ http://allthingsd.com/20131224/scores-of-music-services-stream-into-
crowded-field/#comments Tue, 24 Dec 2013 18:38:23 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380957 The number of music-streaming services is set
to explode next year, as record labels have warmed up to the idea of renting
consumers access to a vast collection of tunes, rather than selling them
individual albums or songs. Dozens of companies — from household brands to
music-focused startups — plan to begin offering new services in 2014,
according to companies that they have hired to help launch and operate them.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/scores-of-music-services-stream-into-crowded-
field/feed/ 0 Samsung Phone Studied for Possible Security Gap
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/samsung-phone-studied-for-possible-security-
gap/ http://allthingsd.com/20131224/samsung-phone-studied-for-possible-
security-gap/#comments Tue, 24 Dec 2013 13:30:01 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380918 The security platform for Samsung Electronics
Co.’s best-selling Galaxy S4 smartphone suffers from a vulnerability that
could allow malicious software to track emails and record data communications,
according to cybersecurity researchers at Israel’s Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev. The alleged security gap, which the researchers say they discovered
earlier this month, comes as Samsung pitches the new security platform called
Knox to potential clients at the U.S. Department of Defense and other
government and corporate entities, in a bid to compete with BlackBerry Ltd.,
whose devices have been considered the gold standard among security-conscious
clients for years. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131224/samsung-phone-studied-for-possible-security-
gap/feed/ 0 QOTD: Now You See It … http://allthingsd.com/20131224/qotd-data-
death/ http://allthingsd.com/20131224/qotd-data-death/#comments Tue, 24 Dec
2013 13:25:19 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380935 Erasability used to be a
mistake. — Digital anthropology student Olly Osborne, who is studying the
implications of data emphemerality, in a series on Medium called “Data Death”
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131224/qotd-data-death/feed/ 0 Target Discusses
Breach With State Attorneys http://allthingsd.com/20131223/target-discusses-
breach-with-state-attorneys/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/target-discusses-
breach-with-state-attorneys/#comments Tue, 24 Dec 2013 00:46:02 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380842 Target Corp. Monday moved to allay rising
concerns from state attorneys general over its 20-day security breach. On
Monday, Target’s general counsel Tim Baer held a 30-minute call with several
attorneys general that discussed the status of the investigation and the
specific information that was breached, according to a person familiar with
the call. Another call between the parties has been scheduled for just after
the New Year, this person said. It was unclear how many authorities were on
the call. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/target-discusses-breach-with-state-
attorneys/feed/ 0 Google’s Schaft Robot Dominates Pentagon Contest
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/googles-schaft-robot-dominates-pentagon-
contest/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/googles-schaft-robot-dominates-
pentagon-contest/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013 23:01:22 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380724 It may not be the prettiest robot on the
scene, but the angular blue creation from Google’s newly acquired Japanese
startup is poised to secure more Pentagon funding to develop a creation
capable of venturing into dangerous disaster zones to help humans. Schaft’s
robot dominated the two-day Pentagon Robotics Challenge Trials this weekend in
Florida, where 16 teams competed at the Nascar race track south of Miami for
one of eight slots to secure more federal development funds. The Pentagon set
up a kind of robot Boot Camp, where the entrees had to run through a series of
eight tests, from turning off a value and opening a series of doors to
removing “debris” and driving an all-terrain-vehicle. Read the rest of this
post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131223/googles-schaft-
robot-dominates-pentagon-contest/feed/ 0 With New Outsourcing Deal, BlackBerry
Cancels Two Phones http://allthingsd.com/20131223/with-new-outsourcing-deal-
blackberry-cancels-two-phones/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/with-new-
outsourcing-deal-blackberry-cancels-two-phones/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013
21:04:06 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380672 A small item from BlackBerry’s
earnings-related filing Friday got lost in the news of its hardware
partnership with Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group–sales of its new phones
have been so bad that BlackBerry was forced to cancel the rollout of two not-
yet-released phones. BlackBerry’s announcement Friday that it will start
outsourcing its hardware business to Foxconn was greeted with enthusiasm by
investors, who pushed that stock up 15.5 percent. In late Monday, the stock
was up another 3.3 percent. Read the rest of this post on the original site »
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131223/with-new-outsourcing-deal-blackberry-
cancels-two-phones/feed/ 0 For Health Coverage Starting January 1, Deadline
Extended a Day http://allthingsd.com/20131223/for-health-coverage-starting-
jan-1-deadline-extended-a-day/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/for-health-
coverage-starting-jan-1-deadline-extended-a-day/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013
20:24:16 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380657 Federal officials delayed the
deadline to sign up for Jan. 1 coverage through the end of Christmas Eve. The
deadline was originally set for midnight on Dec. 23, but contractors managing
the site changed configurations to allow users to sign up for the first wave
of health-law coverage through Dec. 24, people familiar with the matter said.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/for-health-coverage-starting-jan-1-deadline-
extended-a-day/feed/ 0 Tribune Buys Gracenote From Sony
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/tribune-buys-gracenote-from-sony/
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/tribune-buys-gracenote-from-sony/#comments Mon,
23 Dec 2013 17:45:12 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=380578 Tribune Co. said it
will buy Sony Corp.’s Gracenote Inc. subsidiary for $170 million, a move to
unite businesses that supply entertainment data. The Chicago-based media
company said Gracenote will be combined with Tribune Media Services, which
sells TV listings to cable operators and other customers, as well as movie
show times and other data. Read the rest of this post on the original site »
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131223/tribune-buys-gracenote-from-sony/feed/ 0
There's a New Deliveryman in Town http://allthingsd.com/20131223/theres-a-new-
deliveryman-in-town/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/theres-a-new-deliveryman-
in-town/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013 14:18:28 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380540 Mike Harper, a TriBeCa doorman, remembers
Christmas Eve three years ago as a turning point in his career. At 7:30 pm, he
watched in awe as a United Parcel Service Inc. deliveryman carted 27 packages
into the lobby of his building near the corner of Duane and Hudson streets.
“Someone was doing some last-minute shopping,” recalled Mr. Harper, 60 years
old, who has worked at the building for nine years. He logged the arrivals in
a notebook, stacked the packages neatly and kept watch over them. The pace has
picked up since then for Mr. Harper and the city’s thousands of doormen as the
boom in online commerce during the holiday season has turned them into their
buildings’ de facto postal clerks. They are expected to shepherd and track a
constant flow of boxes from FedEx, UPS and the U.S. Postal Service through
their lobbies — and are sometimes conscripted into a crucial, late-stage role
in the gifting process. Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131223/theres-a-new-deliveryman-in-town/feed/ 0
Rampant Returns Plague E-Retailers http://allthingsd.com/20131223/rampant-
returns-plague-e-retailers/ http://allthingsd.com/20131223/rampant-returns-
plague-e-retailers/#comments Mon, 23 Dec 2013 12:00:28 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=380510 Free shipping and lenient return policies have
given online retailing a huge boost. Now, chains are mining their order data
to get shoppers to keep more purchases. Behind the uptick in e-commerce is a
little known secret: As much as a third of all Internet sales gets returned,
according to retail consultancy Kurt Salmon. And the tide of goods flowing
back to retailers is rising. Shipper United Parcel Service Inc. expects
returns to jump 15 percent this season from last year, making them a
significant and growing cost for retailers. Read the rest of this post on the
original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131223/rampant-returns-plague-e-
retailers/feed/ 0