AllThingsD » iPhone 5c http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Buh-Bye From AllThingsD! More Staff Highlights:
Fried, Goode and "Everyone Likes Mike" Isaac.
http://allthingsd.com/20131227/buh-bye-from-atd-more-staff-highlights-fried-
goode-and-everyone-likes-mike-isaac/ http://allthingsd.com/20131227/buh-bye-
from-atd-more-staff-highlights-fried-goode-and-everyone-likes-mike-
isaac/#comments Fri, 27 Dec 2013 15:00:10 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=381195 Like that proverbial pumpkin, at the stroke of
midnight on Dec. 31, All Things Digital goes poof. As I noted earlier, while
the archives of what we have written since April of 2007 — close to 38,000
posts — will remain in the digital ether for your perusal, and the whole staff
of AllThingsD is headed for new pastures, that’s not yet! Before we part, I
asked the staff to send me their favorite posts. Yesterday, I put up those of
Peter Kafka, Arik Hesseldahl and Liz Gannes, and now it’s time for three more
(and more after that!). Without further ado: INA FRIED 1\. Interview: Apple
CEO Steve Jobs on How the iPhone Does and Doesn’t Use Location Information Key
line: “‘As new technology comes into the society there is a period of
adjustment and education,” Jobs said. ‘We haven’t — as an industry — done a
very good job educating people, I think, as to some of the more subtle things
going on here. As such, (people) jumped to a lot of wrong conclusions in the
last week.'” 2\. The Three Irreplaceable Qualities of Steve Jobs Key line:
“Computers came in one color before the iMac. There were digital music players
before the iPod, but none that the masses wanted. One need only look at the
face of the smartphone industry before the iPhone and after to see his vision
and impact there.” 3\. The Facebook Phone: Forking Android Offers Both Promise
and Pitfalls Key line: “Could Google’s Android be Facebook’s new best friend?
It just might be, although it’s unlikely the feeling is mutual.” 4\. The
Definitive Insider’s Guide to Apple vs. Samsung Key lines: “There have been
plenty of dramatic moments in the case of Apple versus Samsung, which some
have dubbed the patent trial of the century. But let’s be clear. There has
also been a lot of downtime.” 5\. How the Angry Birds Almost Died Before the
First Level “Mikael Hed almost pulled the plug on Rovio while the Angry Birds
were still in development. After several years in business, his mobile game
company had yet to produce a hit. Rovio’s chief backer, Hed’s father, Kaj, was
struggling to figure out how to keep the company going.” LAUREN GOODE 1\. If
You Want to Stay out of Jail, Don’t Instagram Your Ballot Key line: “As tough
as it is to peel yourself away from your smartphone for 10 minutes and not
blast your ballot pics to your social streams, in some states, it’s wise to
use caution when it comes to your vote.” 2\. Inside the CES Lost & Found Key
lines: “When I asked what the strangest item is she’s seen so far at CES, she
shrugged. ‘Nothing too off-the-wall. Some tripod case today. But other times,
we get everything. We’ve gotten hearing aids, we’ve gotten teeth. Entire sets
of teeth. Sometimes we even see drugs.'” 3\. Comparing Wearables: Fitbit Flex
vs. Jawbone Up and More Key lines: “Wearable ‘activity trackers’ — not long
ago a niche product — are getting more popular, and people are wondering how
they work and whether they’re worth it. I decided to wear a bunch of trackers
simultaneously for a period of 10 days to really get a sense of their features
and, more importantly, their accuracy.” 4\. Inside the LG G2 Smartphone Event,
Which Is Very Much Like Other Smartphone Events Key lines: “Will this new LG
smartphone be a game-changer? I ask because everybody asks if the next
smartphone is a game-changer. Later on, we might all make charts comparing the
game-changing specs.” 5\. iPhone 5c: Candy Colors With a Nice Price Key lines:
“While the 5c looks and feels very familiar, it’s still a good phone and an
improvement over the 5. But its improvements are evolutionary, not
revolutionary.” MIKE ISAAC 1\. The Future of Twitter’s Platform Is All in the
Cards Key lines: “Therein lies Twitter’s goal: A rich, consistent Twitter
experience for every user. When the hammer drops and Twitter changes its
guidelines, those apps that can’t deliver this consistency will no longer be
able to integrate with Twitter.” 2\. Facebook Wants to Be a Newspaper.
Facebook Users Have Their Own Ideas. Key line: “The gap between these two
Facebooks — the one its managers want to see, and the one its users like using
today — is starting to become visible.” 3\. In the Race to Win Social Video,
Is One App Gaming the System Too Much? Key lines: “There’s a popular maxim in
Silicon Valley: Find your user base and the revenues will come later. For a
while, it seemed to be the easiest way for a founder to explain his or her way
out of a proper business model. But with Facebook’s $1 billion acquisition of
the entirely revenue-free Instagram, that adage now carries more weight than
ever.” 4\. Back on the Global Stage, Mark Zuckerberg Keeps His Cool Key lines:
“The heat was on, but Mark Zuckerberg refused to sweat. The 28-year-old took
the stage at the TechCrunch: Disrupt technology conference, after nearly a
year of radio silence from the CEO and company, a botched IPO, a plummeting
share price and growing investor ire. All of the tech world and Wall Street
wanted to know how Zuckerberg would explain the folly of the past year.” 5\.
Can Twitter Fix Its Product Problem? Key lines: “Many employees see the event
— the Friday that ends Hack Week — as Twitter at its best, a testament to the
company’s capacity for innovation. But some view these days as among the most
depressing of the year: A parade of Twitter features that will never see the
light of day.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131227/buh-bye-from-atd-more-staff-
highlights-fried-goode-and-everyone-likes-mike-isaac/feed/ 0 Apple Supplier
Jabil Circuit Takes Hit http://allthingsd.com/20131219/apple-supplier-jabil-
circuit-takes-hit/ http://allthingsd.com/20131219/apple-supplier-jabil-
circuit-takes-hit/#comments Thu, 19 Dec 2013 11:46:52 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=379873 Shares of Apple Inc. supplier Jabil Circuit
Inc. fell more than 20 percent Wednesday after the components maker said an
unanticipated drop in demand from a big customer would hurt revenue and profit
in the current quarter. Jabil’s warning raised concerns about sales of Apple’s
iPhone 5C, a less-expensive model that Apple released in September. Apple is
Jabil’s biggest customer, accounting for 19 percent of its revenue in the
fiscal year ended Aug. 31. Analysts said Jabil produces the plastic cases for
the iPhone 5C and the metal exteriors for the iPhone 5S. Read the rest of this
post on the original site » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131219/apple-supplier-
jabil-circuit-takes-hit/feed/ 0 iPhones Dominate Sales at All Four Major U.S.
Carriers http://allthingsd.com/20131213/iphones-dominate-sales-at-all-four-
major-u-s-carriers/ http://allthingsd.com/20131213/iphones-dominate-sales-at-
all-four-major-u-s-carriers/#comments Fri, 13 Dec 2013 11:05:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=378564 Apple’s latest iPhones are topping the charts
at U.S. carriers. That’s the latest from Canaccord Genuity analyst T. Michael
Walkley, who says that the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c have been among the top
three sellers at all four major U.S. carriers during the past three months.
“Our surveys indicated continued strong sales of the iPhone 5s, as it was by
far the top selling smartphone at all four tier-1 U.S. carriers and at most
channels where the smartphone launched globally,” Walkley explained in a note
to clients. “Our surveys also indicated steady iPhone 5c sales with the
smartphone’s color options and more affordable price point proving popular
with its intended audience.” Prior to the launch of the iPhone 5s and 5c, the
iPhone 5 was Apple’s sole Top 3 entrant at the big four carriers, and it held
the top spot at AT&T; alone; it was the second-most-popular handset at
Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile, where Samsung’s Galaxy S4 led the pack. But no
longer. With the debut of the iPhone 5s and 5c, Apple has reclaimed the top
spot and, in most cases, the third-place spot, as well. And it has held them
for three months. An impressive showing, and one that Walkley says bodes well
for Apple’s quarterly iPhone shipments. Given strong sales and improved
supplies of the 5s, the analyst raised his first-quarter 2014 iPhone shipment
estimate to 54 million units from 52 million. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131213/iphones-dominate-sales-at-all-four-major-u-s-
carriers/feed/ 0 How Many iPhones Can Apple Sell on China Mobile? (Spoiler:
Lots) http://allthingsd.com/20131205/how-many-iphones-can-apple-sell-on-china-
mobile-spoiler-a-lot/ http://allthingsd.com/20131205/how-many-iphones-can-
apple-sell-on-china-mobile-spoiler-a-lot/#comments Thu, 05 Dec 2013 16:17:55
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377015 It has taken more than five years, but
Apple has finally inked its long-anticipated iPhone distribution deal with
China Mobile, and in doing so, has seized an opportunity for big smartphone
market-share gains. With more than 700 million subscribers, China Mobile is
the largest wireless carrier in the world, and one of the few that can
significantly move the needle on iPhone sales. But by how much? The first
estimates began rolling in last night, and they’re sizable. Piper Jaffray
analyst Gene Munster figures that Apple could sell 17 million total iPhones on
China mobile in 2014. That’s about 10 percent of the carrier’s 3G subscriber
base, and two percent of its total subscribers, which seems a reasonable
estimate. Remember that China’s lower incomes and the high unsubsidized price
of the iPhone will likely temper demand for the device. As Munster notes, the
average unsubsidized cost of a smartphone on China Mobile is about $270 —
significantly lower that the $718 and $846 unsubsidized prices of the iPhone
5c and 5s. Munster’s forecast is conservative compared to some others. ISI
analyst Brian Marshall, for example, is looking for more than double that
17-million-unit figure. He’s calling for iPhone sales on China Mobile of 38.7
million for calendar 2014, with seven million sold in Q1, 8.7 million in Q2,
10.5 million in Q3, and 12.5 million in Q4. And over at Cantor Fitzgerald,
analyst Brian White is forecasting calendar 2014 iPhone sales of 20 million to
24 million on China Mobile. Big numbers, all of them, the magnitude of the
final number to be driven by marketing as much as demand, as Wedge Partners
analyst Brian Blair — who is figuring on sales of 18 million to 20 million —
observes. “We expect a strong marketing push to follow the official
announcement, and that is what is critical,” he told AllThingsD. “It’s Apple’s
job to turn the Chinese consumer away from entrenched brands like Samsung.”
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131205/how-many-iphones-can-apple-sell-on-china-
mobile-spoiler-a-lot/feed/ 0 Logitech's iPhone Gamepad Case Goes on Sale Next
Month, Costs $100 http://allthingsd.com/20131120/logitechs-iphone-gamepad-
case-goes-on-sale-next-month-costs-100/
http://allthingsd.com/20131120/logitechs-iphone-gamepad-case-goes-on-sale-
next-month-costs-100/#comments Wed, 20 Nov 2013 11:16:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=373081 The leaks were right — Logitech has a gamepad
case for the iPhone and iPod touch, and it will be widely available in early
December. The PowerShell is part of the gaming-focused G Series, costs $99.99
and contains a standard directional pad; four main buttons, labeled A, B, X
and Y; two trigger buttons; a dedicated pause button; and a 1500 mAh battery
that charges the iPhone/iPod. It works with the iPhone 5 and 5s and the fifth-
generation iPod touch on iOS 7. Notice what’s missing from that list? Logitech
said the case won’t work with the new iPhone 5c because the 5c is 0.4-1.37 mm
bigger in all dimensions. In order to accommodate the iPod touch, which is 1.5
mm thinner than the phones, the case includes a removable sheet of padding.
Global product marketing manager Mark Starrett said Logitech has been working
with Apple since before the official announcement of iOS 7’s third-party
controller support at this year’s WWDC. That OS-level support means the
accessory manufacturer has not had to work with developers to ensure their
games’ compatibility, but is talking with a handful about marketing
partnerships. Logitech is not currently planning to make a comparable gamepad
case for Android devices, even though Google has offered third-party
controller support on its OS for much longer. With “four or five” competing
standards, “Android is just a mess,” Starrett said. Unlike the Moga Ace Power
gamepad case, also unveiled this week, the PowerShell does not collapse for
portability. The rigid case is designed to be used in landscape mode, with the
home button pointing toward the user’s right hand. At launch, about 300 games
will work with the case, but they’ll be universal, meaning that PowerShell
owners won’t have to download different versions of the apps for touch and
non-touch gameplay. Starrett said Logitech has already tested dozens of those
games with the PowerShell, and expects Apple to roll out a new section in the
iOS App Store for gamepad-compatible games. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131120/logitechs-iphone-gamepad-case-goes-on-sale-
next-month-costs-100/feed/ 0 Future iPhones Could Be Big and Curvy, More
Sensitive to Pressure http://allthingsd.com/20131110/future-iphones-could-be-
big-and-curvy-more-sensitive-to-pressure/
http://allthingsd.com/20131110/future-iphones-could-be-big-and-curvy-more-
sensitive-to-pressure/#comments Sun, 10 Nov 2013 16:07:39 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=371671 While today’s iPhone is a thin, flat slab of
glass and electronics, Apple is experimenting with some radically new looks.
According to a Bloomberg report, Apple is prepping curved screen models for
next year that would feature, among other things, larger displays than found
on the iPhone 5 and 5s. LG and Samsung have both announced curved-screen
smartphones of their own, with the LG Flex and Galaxy Round, respectively.
Bloomberg said Apple is working on two curved models for the second half of
the year, with screens of 4.7 and 5.5 inches — both larger than Apple’s
current models. The company is also working on new pressure-sensing technology
that could distinguish between heavy and light touches, though that may take
beyond next year to bring to market, Bloomberg said. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131110/future-iphones-could-be-big-and-curvy-more-
sensitive-to-pressure/feed/ 0 Apple to Offer In-Store Repairs for iPhone 5s,
iPhone 5c http://allthingsd.com/20131107/apple-to-offer-in-store-repairs-for-
iphone-5s-iphone-5c/ http://allthingsd.com/20131107/apple-to-offer-in-store-
repairs-for-iphone-5s-iphone-5c/#comments Thu, 07 Nov 2013 17:06:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=371266 Owners of Apple’s iPhone 5s and 5c will soon
be able to have broken displays replaced and other small repairs made to the
device while they wait at Apple retail stores. 9to5Mac reports, and AllThingsD
has independently confirmed, that Apple is preparing to extend to its new
iPhones the same in-store repair program it rolled out for the iPhone 5 this
past summer. Sources said that Apple Stores will be equipped to handle most
common repairs — cracked screens, bad batteries, etc. The initiative is
expected to begin before the end of the year, and should be a relief to iPhone
5s and 5c users with damaged devices. It’s easier and cheaper to have the
broken screen on your unwarrantied 5s replaced than to pay the fee for a
replacement device and run through the backup and restore process. Apple
declined to comment. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131107/apple-to-offer-in-
store-repairs-for-iphone-5s-iphone-5c/feed/ 0 iPad Air Has Spendier Display,
Costs Less to Make Than Earlier Models http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-
air-has-spendier-display-costs-less-to-make-than-earlier-models/
http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-air-has-spendier-display-costs-less-to-
make-than-earlier-models/#comments Tue, 05 Nov 2013 12:30:14 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=370543 There’s a new iPad in town, and that means the
folks at research firm IHS are once again doing what they do best: Taking it
apart for a look inside. In the latest of its teardown analysis reports
obtained by AllThingsD, the firm said that Apple’s iPad Air (see Walt
Mossberg’s review) costs between $274 and $361 to build, depending on the
model. The device sells at retail for a starting price of $499 for the base
16-gigabyte Wi-Fi only model, and for as much as $929 for a 128GB model with
Wi-Fi plus cellular data service. I talked with Andrew Rassweiler, the analyst
who oversees the teardown work at IHS’s lab in Los Angeles. “What I expected
to see inside was basically an iPhone 5s with a bigger display,” he said.
“That was a little true, but a little not.” Some key changes occurred on the
iPad Air from the third-generation iPad, which was the last full-sized model
IHS studied. (There was, of course, the first iPad mini last year.) The
biggest changes, he said, were with the display and touchscreen assembly. For
one thing, it’s thinner and has fewer layers in the combined assembly than in
previous models. But, at an estimated combined cost of $133 (about $90 for the
display and $43 for the touchscreen parts), it’s a lot more expensive than
before, he said. South Korean electronics companies LG Display and Samsung are
both thought to be suppliers of the display, he said. For the touchscreen bit,
there’s a new type of sensor known as a cyclic-olefin polymer sensor that sits
underneath the outer layer of Gorilla Glass that users touch. What used to
require two layers of glass, Rassweiler said, now requires only one. As a
result, the whole assembly measures out to 1.8 millimeters thick, versus 2.23
millimeters on the third-generation model. There are also fewer LED lights
providing the backlighting to the display than before. The brightness that
once required 84 LED lights is now being accomplished with only 36. Rassweiler
said that while it’s possible that the LED lights are brighter and more
efficient than in previous models, Apple is also using thin layers of optical
film to distribute the light from the LEDs across the entire display. “These
optical films don’t get the credit they deserve,” he said. Fewer LEDs cuts
down on the weight and the power drain to the battery. But even with a more
expensive display, the total component cost of the base model, at $274, is
still $42 cheaper than the entry-level third-generation iPad. That’s because
not much else inside the iPad has changed drastically since then. Yes, there’s
a new Apple chip, the A7, but at an estimated cost to Apple of $18 (Samsung
still manufacturers it for Apple under contract), it costs five dollars less
per unit than the A5 processor did 18 months ago. Dialog Semiconductor
produces a power-management chip that goes with it, though this one is bigger
than the one seen in the iPhone 5s. Other suppliers include Qualcomm, which
provided cellular data network chips at a cost of $32 for the four models that
are LTE-ready. Skyworks, Avago Technologies and TriQuint Semiconductor all
supplied different bits of the wireless technology. With the iPad Air, Apple
appears to have reached a new milestone on the wireless front: It can support
every LTE frequency with a single combination of chips. “This is something
Apple tried to do with the iPhone 5s and 5c, but it couldn’t quite get there,”
Rassweiler said. “One single model of the iPad Air is able to work with all
U.S. wireless carriers.” The benefit: Less variation of models mean lower
total costs overall, and higher gross profits. He said there’s probably not
enough space to pack all the chips required into the smaller enclosure of an
iPhone. As chips get smaller, future iPhone models will likely benefit from a
single model for all carriers, too, just not yet. Other component suppliers
have been spotted in previous iPad models: Broadcom supplied a controller chip
for the touchscreen. Cirrus Logic supplied an audio chip. STMicroelectronics
supplied a gyroscope chip. Bosch Sensortec supplied the accelerometer. And AKM
Semiconductor supplied a compass chip. Elpida, a unit of Idaho-based Micron
Technology, was spotted as the supplier of the DRAM memory chips in the unit
IHS examined, though other memory chip vendors are known Apple suppliers,
including SK Hynix and Samsung, adding about $10 to the component cost.
Similarly, IHS found Toshiba-made flash-memory chips in its teardown specimen,
though, again, Samsung and SK Hynix are known flash suppliers, as well.
Depending on the model, flash chips account for between $9 and $60 of the
component cost. All told, IHS estimates Apple’s implied gross margins on the
iPad to range from 45 percent on the 16GB Wi-Fi only version to 61 percent on
the 128GB LTE version. Below is the call-out slide from IHS’s presentation
report. It’s basically a labeled version of the “exploded view” image above.
You can click to make it bigger: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131105/ipad-air-
has-spendier-display-costs-less-to-make-than-earlier-models/feed/ 0 AllThingsD
Week in Review: Patent Wars Redux and Netflix Thinks "Big"
http://allthingsd.com/20131103/allthingsd-week-in-review-patent-wars-redux-
and-netflix-thinks-big/ http://allthingsd.com/20131103/allthingsd-week-in-
review-patent-wars-redux-and-netflix-thinks-big/#comments Sun, 03 Nov 2013
10:00:15 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=369965 In case you missed anything,
here’s a quick roundup of some of the news that powered AllThingsD this week:
Duck and cover! The so-called “Rockstar Consortium,” led by Apple, that
controls Nortel’s former patents, filed eight patent lawsuits this week
against Google and pretty much every Android device maker. “House of Cards”
and “Orange Is the New Black” have paid off for Netflix, but chief content
officer Ted Sarandos isn’t done yet, saying that Netflix could become a first-
run movie distributor, too. “Meaning, why not premiere movies on Netflix, the
same day they’re opening in theaters?” For more than a decade, Google has been
trying to stay ahead of the future of online shopping. Now it has a new
commerce boss, longtime engineer Sridhar Ramaswamy, who sat down with Jason
Del Rey to explain Mountain View’s latest visions. In its first quarter with
two new iPhones on shelves at the same time, Apple soundly beat analyst
expectations. CEO Tim Cook explained in the fourth-quarter earnings call that
the cheaper iPhone 5c was never intended for the low end, and cautioned that
the Retina iPad mini might be in short supply. Speaking of iPads … the iPad
Air is thinner and lighter, but is it worth your $500? In All Things Reviewed,
Walt Mossberg “found it a pleasure to use,” and got some surprising results
when he subjected the new tablet to his usual battery tests. After two years
of promising to break into the Web TV business with a set-top box, Intel
appears to be backing off. Sources say the company is in advanced talks with
Verizon to hand off its Intel Media division. At long last, Google unveiled
its new flagship phone, the Nexus 5. Its goal: To deliver “the right
information, when you want it, at your fingertips,” by integrating Google’s
services more tightly than ever. Several sources tell AllThingsD that Yahoo’s
employee-review system, implemented a year ago under then-new CEO Marissa
Mayer, is coming to the fore, and may lead to the firings of more than 500
underperforming employees. How companies define their all-important “active
users” stat can be a bit fuzzy. Case in point: Google, which this week
confirmed that Google+’s self-reported monthly active numbers get a boost from
notifications on the search giant’s other properties. As it tries to optimize
how its components move from Asia to Europe, HP is making a big bet on one of
the latter continent’s more troubled countries, Greece. Here’s why. To stay on
top of the latest, please follow AllThingsD on Twitter and Facebook, and
subscribe to our daily email newsletter. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131103/allthingsd-week-in-review-patent-wars-redux-
and-netflix-thinks-big/feed/ 0 iPhone 5c Was Always Planned as Mid-Tier, Not
Low-End, Says Cook http://allthingsd.com/20131029/iphone-5c-was-always-
planned-as-mid-tier-not-low-end-says-cook/
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/iphone-5c-was-always-planned-as-mid-tier-not-
low-end-says-cook/#comments Tue, 29 Oct 2013 20:14:29 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=369080 Is the price of Apple’s new iPhone 5c too high
for the market for which it was intended? Not according to CEO Tim Cook, who
said the device isn’t intended for the unsubsidized prepaid customers that
many observers thought it might be. During a Monday earnings call, Cook said
the 5c isn’t the long-rumored “budget iPhone,” nor was it conceived as that.
“If you look at what we’ve done with our iPhone line, we’re selling the iPhone
4s as our entry-level offer,” Cook said. “We’re selling the iPhone 5c as sort
of a mid-tier offer and then we have the iPhone 5s. Our goal is to have
overall growth for the total iPhone [line], but also growth within each of
those categories. … I realize that some people were reading rumors that the
entry phone would be the 5c, but that was never our intent. Our entry iPhone
is the iPhone 4s.” In other words, Apple’s plan all along was to use a legacy
device as its entry-level iPhone, just as it has done for years. And, as I’ve
written before, the 5c was a move to establish a new mainstream price band
between the smartphone market’s high end and its low end: “Historically, Apple
has done quite well for itself using mid-tier products with lots of
aspirational appeal to draw budget-conscious consumers into a higher price
range. It did it with the iPod nano, and again with the iPad mini.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/iphone-5c-was-always-planned-as-mid-tier-not-
low-end-says-cook/feed/ 0 Apple Scores Another Beat
http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apple-scores-another-beat/
http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apple-scores-another-beat/#comments Mon, 28 Oct
2013 20:41:13 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=368770 Back in September, Apple
said it expected revenue and gross margins for its fourth quarter to fall
“near the high end” of the range it had previously provided — $34 billion to
$37 billion, and 36 percent to 37 percent. Today, it delivered on that
promise. Posting fourth-quarter financials after market close Monday, Apple
reported earnings per share of $8.26 on revenue of $37.5 billion. That’s well
above the $7.92 on revenue of $36.82 billion analysts had predicted, and at
the higher end of Apple’s own range of guidance for the period, though it was
down on a per-share basis from $8.22 billion, or $8.67 a share, a year
earlier. Apple said its gross margins were 37 percent, right in line with
expectations. Apple said it sold 33.8 million iPhones for the quarter, 14.1
million iPads and 4.6 million Macs. Analysts were expecting iPhone sales of
33.4 million units, iPad sales of 13.9 million units and Mac sales of about
4.2 million units. Apple declared a cash dividend of $3.05 per share payable
on November 14, 2013, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on
November 11, 2013. “We’re pleased to report a strong finish to an amazing year
with record fourth-quarter revenue, including sales of almost 34 million
iPhones,” CEO Tim Cook said in an earnings release. Apple’s guidance for next
quarter, perhaps the most closely watched data point of all today: Revenue of
between $55 billion and $58 billion, and gross margins of 36.5 percent to 37
percent. Analysts had been looking for revenue of $55.53 billion. Apple stock
is trading down more than three percent after hours. Notes from the call $16
billion in revenue from iTunes software and services. 400 million visitors to
retail stores. $50 million in revenue per store. Completed 15 strategic
acquisitions. That’s one acquisition every three to four weeks. Greatly
appreciate “suggestions” from shareholders about capital allocation. Will
announce any changes to capital allocation program in the first part of 2014.
Sold 33.8 million iPhones versus 26.9 million in the same period in the year
prior. Increase of 26 percent, a new September quarter record. Experian says
iPhone users spend 53 percent more time each day on their devices than Android
users. Sold 14.1 million iPads this quarter versus 14 million in same quarter
last year. Sales of Macs exceeded expectations. Down 4 percent year over year,
but overall PC market was down 10 percent. Planning 30 new stores in fiscal
2014, two-thirds outside the United States. Company has $146.8 billion in
cash; 76 percent of that is offshore ($111.3 billion). Cook on 64-bit
processor in iPhone 5s and new iPads: “This is the front end of a long
roadmap.” Cook on iPhone 5c pricing: “If you look at what we’ve done, we’re
selling the iPhone 4s as our entry level offering. We sell the iPhone 5c as a
mid-tier device. And then we have the iPhone 5s at the high end. Obviously
some people read rumors about the 5c being an entry-level device, but that was
never our intent.” Cook says he stands by his statement that we will see
exciting new products from Apple across 2014. “We believe we can use our
skills to build new categories in areas where we do not participate today.
We’re confident in that.” Cook on China: “We had a pretty good quarter in
China, but want to do better.” IPhone units were up 26 percent year over year
despite constraints around iPhone 5s. For full year, Greater China generated
$27 billion, up 14 percent year over year. Cook on the tablet market and
Apple’s new iPad lineup: “We continue to view the tablet market as huge. We
see it as a large opportunity for us. We are not solely focused on unit share,
we are focused on usage share and customer loyalty and other things that are
important to us. … We’re confident we will grow strongly year over year. We’re
getting things off to a great start this weekend with iPad Air and later in
the month we’ll begin shipping the new mini. … We did feel that we wanted to
reduce the price of the iPad mini and now we’re coming in at $299. … IPad Air
is the best iPad we’ve ever done. We believe these products are going to do
really well. We think it’s going to be an iPad Christmas.” Cook on Apple’s
decision to offer iWork, iLife and Mavericks for free: “We wanted to make this
software part of what it meant to own a Mac and an iOS device. IWork had
become the best-selling productivity app on a mobile device, we wanted all of
our customers to have access to it so they could have the best features. …
Other folks charge for their OS and productivity apps. We wanted to make it a
part of the experience.” Cook on iPhone 5s and iPad supplies: “The 5s ended
the quarter with significant backlog, but supply is building each week.
[We’re] very confident in ability to keep ramping. In terms of Retina mini,
we’ll start shipping later in November. We know how many we can make, but we
won’t be able to assess demand until we ship … it’s unclear when supply and
demand will be in balance there. … We will see how we do on iPad Air as we go
out this week. I think we’ll have a very good weekend, but I’m not sure
everyone who wants one will be able to find one.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apple-scores-another-beat/feed/ 0 Apple's
Fourth Quarter: Dueling iPhones and the China Question
http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apples-fourth-quarter-dueling-iphones-and-the-
china-question/ http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apples-fourth-quarter-dueling-
iphones-and-the-china-question/#comments Mon, 28 Oct 2013 09:30:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=368576 This afternoon, Apple will report earnings for
a quarter unlike any before — the first in which the company sold two new
iPhones instead of one. While this quarter includes just eight days of iPhone
sales, expectations for it are high, and for good reason. Apple sold a record
nine million new iPhones over the weekend that it debuted the iPhone 5s and
5c. Touting that milestone in a Sep. 23 announcement and an SEC filing, Apple
said it expected revenue and gross margins for the period to fall “near” the
high end of the range it provided when it last reported financials, $34
billion to $37 billion, and 36 percent to 37 percent. Given that, investors
are looking for some pretty big numbers for Apple’s fourth quarter, which
marks the end of the company’s fiscal year. Consensus calls for earnings of
$7.92 per share on sales of $36.82 billion, with first-quarter guidance of
$13.86 per share on revenue of $55.65 billion, according to estimates compiled
by Fortune’s Apple 2.0. Estimates for shipments of key Apple products vary a
bit, but here are the averages of calls made by a collection of 48
professional and independent analysts — again, helpfully compiled by Apple
2.0: iPhones: 33.4 million iPads: 13.9 million Macs: 4.2 million These
numbers, and Apple’s financials, are only part of the story. There are a lot
of questions to be answered with this particular earnings report — more so
than usual. That should make for a noteworthy call with the company’s
management. Look for some clarity — or lack of it — around the following: New
iPhones Commentary on iPhone 5c pricing and demand, and color around new
iPhone sales in general. How much better is the flagship iPhone 5s selling
than the 5c? Is there any truth to supply-chain chatter claiming that Apple
has dialed back production of the 5c? Retina iPad mini When will the new iPad
mini with Retina display ship? When Apple unveiled the device last week at a
special event in San Francisco, it didn’t provide a specific launch date, just
a ballpark window of availability “later in November.” iPads Apple’s iPad
business contracted a bit last quarter. Was that an anomaly, the beginning of
a trend, or a cyclical and expected decline driven by consumers postponing
their iPad purchases until Apple’s latest models debut? China How’s business
in China? In Apple’s third quarter, revenue from Greater China — which
includes Hong Kong and Taiwan — slipped 14 percent year over year, to $4.6
billion. That was a 43 percent decline from the previous quarter. And sell-
through in Hong Kong fell by about 20 percent. The reason? During its last
earnings call, Apple didn’t have a firm explanation. “It’s not totally clear
exactly what occurred,” CEO Tim Cook said at the time. Perhaps the company has
a better idea now. Carl Icahn What does Apple think of the activist investor’s
call for it to immediately repurchase $150 billion worth of its own stock?
Apple reports earnings after market close today. Join us here for coverage.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131028/apples-fourth-quarter-dueling-iphones-and-
the-china-question/feed/ 0 Chinese Handset Exports Bode Well for iPhone Sales
http://allthingsd.com/20131022/chinese-handset-exports-bode-well-for-iphone-
sales/ http://allthingsd.com/20131022/chinese-handset-exports-bode-well-for-
iphone-sales/#comments Tue, 22 Oct 2013 10:00:40 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=367173 Here’s another data point to consider amid all
this supply-chain chatter about just how Apple is managing production of its
new iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s. Société Generale analyst Andy Perkins on Monday
upgraded his rating on Apple’s shares to “buy” from “hold.” His rationale for
doing so: Hon Hai and Pegatron, two of Apple’s iPhone manufacturing partners,
charted a 20 percent year-over-year increase in sales during September. And,
at the same time, the value of handsets exported from China, where most of
those companies’ iPhone facilities are located, rose 30 percent. “We believe
that this signals an impressive start for the manufacture of the new
handsets,” Perkins said in a note to clients. “Additionally, Chinese September
export data shows handset value up 30 percent year-over-year. As there has
historically been a close correlation between Apple iPhone revenues and
Chinese export value, we believe that this also bodes well for Apple’s third
quarter results.” With that in mind, Perkins raised his target on Apple shares
to $575, arguing for “strong rises” in sales of the company’s new iPhones.
“For now we believe that the momentum is with Apple, especially its new 5s
model,” he wrote. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131022/chinese-handset-exports-
bode-well-for-iphone-sales/feed/ 0 Boost Mobile Finally Gets the iPhone
http://allthingsd.com/20131021/boost-mobile-finally-gets-the-iphone/
http://allthingsd.com/20131021/boost-mobile-finally-gets-the-iphone/#comments
Mon, 21 Oct 2013 14:15:25 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=366981 Virgin Mobile,
one of Sprint’s two prepaid brands, got the iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c last
month. Now it’s Boost Mobile’s turn. Sprint’s other prepaid brand said today
that it will add Apple’s latest iPhones to its portfolio on Friday, Nov. 8.
Pricing wasn’t disclosed. This will be the first time Boost Mobile has sold
the iPhone. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131021/boost-mobile-finally-gets-the-
iphone/feed/ 0 AllThingsD Week in Review: BlackBerry Is Just Resting, and
YouTube Goes Mobile First http://allthingsd.com/20131020/allthingsd-week-in-
review-blackberry-is-just-resting-and-youtube-goes-mobile-first/
http://allthingsd.com/20131020/allthingsd-week-in-review-blackberry-is-just-
resting-and-youtube-goes-mobile-first/#comments Sun, 20 Oct 2013 19:00:59
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=366803 In case you missed anything, here’s a
quick roundup of some of the news that powered AllThingsD this week: Amid
great uncertainty, BlackBerry publicly pledged this week that it’s not dead
yet and, in fact, will rise again. Meanwhile, a new suitor for the once-
dominant mobile company emerged: Lenovo is confidentially exploring
BlackBerry’s books as it mulls a potential bid. Since April, Yahoo has made a
big push around its Facebook-esque “stream ads” that show up within the
scrolling feeds of the company’s finance, sports and news pages. Sources this
week said that it’s an even bigger initiative than previously thought: CEO
Marissa Mayer hopes stream ads will one day be Yahoo’s greatest driver of new
revenue. This week, security outfit QuarksLab claimed that Apple’s messaging
service iMessage was not secure, and could be opened up by either curious
Apple employees or by a government mandate. But on Friday, Apple vehemently
denied that claim. After a decent Q3 earnings report, Google showed a little
bit more of its hand re video plans. CEO Larry Page announced new numbers that
suggest mobile is more important to YouTube than ever. Sources said Twitter
plans to significantly update its direct-messaging product in the near future,
bringing it to the forefront as rival messaging apps like Snapchat and
WhatsApp continue to thrive. Who wants an iPhone 5c? Apparently, about half
the number of people who want the more expensive 5s. Make no mistake, it’s
still selling like an iPhone, but a growing chorus of supply-chain-trimming
rumors suggest that Apple’s expectations for the device might have been too
high. A long list of tech titans and well known companies are supporting the
nonprofit Code.org as it tries to bring computer science to more schools. But
two names in its first educational program might jump out more than others:
Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates, who will be leading coding tutorials during
Code.org’s worldwide “Hour of Code.” After Apple CEO Tim Cook hired and then
fired retail head John Browett last year, the question of who would replace
him became hotly debated. Now, we finally have an answer: Burberry CEO Angela
Ahrendts, who will join in the spring. It’s already possible to send cash to
friends or relatives online through services like PayPal or Venmo, but this
week, Square unveiled its entry in the field. In All Things Reviewed, Walt
Mossberg reviewed Square Cash and found it to be “simpler and more private”
than its established competitors. IBM turned in disappointing earnings on
Wednesday, and it’s worse than a quarterly problem: The longtime No. 2
software-revenue company in the world, behind Microsoft, has now slipped in
the rankings. Its replacement? A press-release-happy Oracle. To stay on top of
the latest, please follow AllThingsD on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to
our daily email newsletter. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131020/allthingsd-
week-in-review-blackberry-is-just-resting-and-youtube-goes-mobile-first/feed/
0 More iPhone 5c Supply Chain Rumors http://allthingsd.com/20131018/more-
iphone-5c-supply-chain-rumors/ http://allthingsd.com/20131018/more-
iphone-5c-supply-chain-rumors/#comments Fri, 18 Oct 2013 21:45:09 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=366740 Has Apple reduced orders for its new iPhone
5c? A growing chorus of reports suggests that it has. Earlier this week, The
Wall Street Journal reported that Apple has told manufacturing partners
Pegatron and Hon Hai to ramp down production of the device. Reuters echoed
that report later the same day, and now NPD DisplaySearch is making similar
claims. In a report published Friday, the research outfit said recent channel
checks suggest that Apple has dialed back iPhone 5c production by 35 percent,
while increasing iPhone 5s production by 75 percent. NPD attributes the 5c
production cuts to demand weakened by the device’s higher-than-expected price.
“Rumors about iPhone 5c being ‘cheap’ were circulating as early as Q3 2012,”
NPD analysts Tina Teng and Shawn Lee theorize. “The fact that the iPhone 5c is
nearly identical to the iPhone 5 — and is not cheap — disappointed some
consumers.” Perhaps. That’s certainly an easy explanation for such production
cuts following a nine-million-new-iPhones-sold opening weekend. But easy
explanations aren’t always accurate, and as similarly pessimistic reports
about iPhone 5 demand last year proved, supply chain production volume rumors
sometimes aren’t the best information on which to gauge iPhone sales. Things
can go from “FLASH: Apple has cut orders for iPhone components due to weaker-
than-expected demand!” to “My bad! Apple actually sold 47.8 million iPhones
this quarter” pretty quickly. As Apple CEO Tim Cook said in January, “I’d
recommend questioning the accuracy of any kind of rumor about build plans. I’d
also stress that even if a particular data point were to be factual it would
be impossible to interpret what it really means to our business. Our supply
chain is very complex and we have multiple sources for our components. Yields
can vary, supplier performance can vary. There’s just a long list of things
that would make any single data point not a great proxy for what’s going on.”
Apple reports fourth-quarter earnings on Monday, October 28. The company did
not respond to a request for comment. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131018/more-
iphone-5c-supply-chain-rumors/feed/ 0 Verizon Could Have Sold More iPhones in
the Third Quarter http://allthingsd.com/20131017/verizon-could-have-sold-more-
iphones-in-the-third-quarter/ http://allthingsd.com/20131017/verizon-could-
have-sold-more-iphones-in-the-third-quarter/#comments Thu, 17 Oct 2013
15:33:11 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=366339 At Verizon, the iPhone still
rules. Posting second-quarter earnings Thursday morning, the carrier said
that, once again, it activated more iPhones than it did any other smartphone.
But Verizon also said that it could have sold more, if it had more to sell. Of
the 7.6 million smartphone activations Verizon racked up during the quarter,
3.9 million were iPhones, Verizon CFO Fran Shammo said during the company’s
earnings call. That means that Apple’s device accounted for about 51 percent
of all smartphone activations for the period. In the year-ago quarter, the 3.1
million iPhones Verizon activated accounted for 46 percent of its 6.8 million
smartphone activations. Shammo didn’t break down iPhone sales by model,
offering no visibility into how the iPhone 5s performed relative to the iPhone
5c. But he did note that Verizon might have sold more iPhones during the
quarter were it not faced with shortages. “We did encounter iPhone supply
constraints that created a backlog at the end of September,” Shammo said. “And
that resulted in some carryover to the fourth quarter.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131017/verizon-could-have-sold-more-iphones-in-the-
third-quarter/feed/ 0 Apple Cuts iPhone 5c Orders
http://allthingsd.com/20131016/apple-cuts-iphone-5c-orders/
http://allthingsd.com/20131016/apple-cuts-iphone-5c-orders/#comments Wed, 16
Oct 2013 14:49:52 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365999 HONG KONG — Apple Inc.
has notified its two assemblers for the low-cost iPhone 5c that it is reducing
orders of the smartphone for the fourth quarter, people familiar with the
situation said, raising concerns about weaker-than-expected demand and its
pricing strategy for the device. In September, the Cupertino, Calif., company
began selling its newest iPhones in 11 markets including the U.S. and China,
for the first time at launch. Customers’ attention focused on the company’s
high-end phone, the iPhone 5s, which offers faster chips and new features
including a fingerprint sensor despite being about $100 more expensive than
the iPhone 5c. Demand for a new gold-colored version was particularly high
during its initial debut, causing Apple to increase orders for that device.
Read the rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131016/apple-cuts-iphone-5c-orders/feed/ 0 Gauging
iPhone 5c Demand http://allthingsd.com/20131015/gauging-iphone-5c-demand/
http://allthingsd.com/20131015/gauging-iphone-5c-demand/#comments Tue, 15 Oct
2013 10:03:13 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365494 Apple’s iPhone 5c may not
be selling quite as well as the flagship iPhone 5s, but make no mistake — it
is selling. To wit, the results of a recent Robert W. Baird channel check of
U.S Apple Stores which seems to confirm emerging demand for the 5c. Baird
analyst Will Power and his team investigated the availability of 600 different
iPhone 5c SKUs last week, and found many in stock at nearly all the stores
they checked. That said, there were some noteworthy variations. “… Different
stores have been running out of stock of a variety of SKUs, rather than just
one or two stores always running out of stock of the same SKU,” Power
explained. “This implies that while the iPhone 5c is easily found, its
inventory is not sitting stagnant.” So there is demand for the 5c, though its
appearance has perhaps been belied somewhat by plentiful supply. Something to
consider amid recent reports that claim Apple is dialing back iPhone 5c
production because of slower-than-expected sales. That the iPhone 5c is in
good supply likely says more about Apple’s ease in manufacturing it than it
does about rumored rising inventory levels. Remember, the company has been
building the 5c’s components for well over a year now; most were in the iPhone
5. And the device’s plastic chassis is far easier to produce than the aluminum
one used in the 5s. Could demand for the 5c be lower than Apple had hoped?
It’s certainly possible. But there’s no way to tell for sure right now. And
it’s equally possible that the 5c’s availability is a function of Apple’s
ability to manufacture enough units of it to maintain a plentiful supply in
the face of strong demand. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131015/gauging-
iphone-5c-demand/feed/ 0 Cricket Gets the iPhone 5s, 5c Next Week
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/cricket-gets-the-iphone-5s-5c-next-week/
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/cricket-gets-the-iphone-5s-5c-next-
week/#comments Mon, 14 Oct 2013 17:15:30 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365344
Apple’s latest iPhones are headed to Cricket. The prepaid carrier, which is
about to be purchased by AT&T; as part of its acquisition of Leap Wireless,
will begin offering the iPhone 5s and 5c to its customers on Oct. 25. No word
yet on Cricket’s pricing for the devices, though prepaid customers typically
pay full fare. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131014/cricket-gets-the-
iphone-5s-5c-next-week/feed/ 0 iPhone 5s Outselling iPhone 5c Two to One
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/iphone-5s-outselling-iphone-5c-two-to-one/
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/iphone-5s-outselling-iphone-5c-two-to-
one/#comments Mon, 14 Oct 2013 10:25:43 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365143
Asked during Apple’s last earnings call if he feared the higher end of the
smartphone market was nearing saturation, CEO Tim Cook said he did not. “I
don’t subscribe to the common view that the higher end, if you will, of the
smartphone market is at its peak,” Cook said. “I don’t believe that.” Turns
out Cook had good reason to take that view. In September, Apple launched a
pair of new iPhones, the flagship iPhone 5s and the mid-tier iPhone 5c, and a
new analysis by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners shows that the higher-
end 5s has been outselling the lower-priced 5c in the United States. According
to CIRP’s survey of U.S. consumers who purchased Apple’s latest iPhones during
the last days of September, the 5s accounted for 64 percent of total iPhone
sales following its launch that month. Meanwhile, the 5c accounted for 27
percent, with the legacy iPhone 4S making up the remaining 9 percent. So not
only is the 5s outselling the 5c, it’s outselling it more than two to one.
Welcome news for Apple, since cannibalization of the 5s by the 5c was a
potential commercial risk for this iPhone cycle. CIRP’s data suggests that the
company has so far avoided it — though that’s hardly surprising at this early
stage. After all, the iPhone 5c was intended as a mainstream smartphone, the
iPhone 5s as an enthusiast one — a “forward-thinking” device for forward-
thinking folks. And enthusiasts are often early adopters. What’s more
surprising is the iPhone 5c’s sales performance relative to that of the iPhone
4S’s following the debut of the iPhone 5. Despite the 5c’s newness and its
colorful design, it’s not selling that much better than the 4S did when it was
demoted to legacy iPhone by the flagship iPhone 5. According to CIRP’s
analysis, the 5c accounted for 27 percent of iPhone sales during the time
period surveyed — just slightly more than the 23 percent captured by the 4S
during the same period last year. Remember, the new 5c is this year stepping
into a role similar to the one the old 4S served last year: The $99 iPhone.
But Apple has attempted to improve its value proposition, tricking it out with
a new plastic chassis and color options. Also worth noting: The iPhone 5
appears to have had a slightly more successful debut than the iPhone 5s,
capturing 68 percent of new sales compared to the 64 percent captured by the
5s. So, at launch, the iPhone 5s has proven more popular than the iPhone 5c.
Will it continue to be into the new year? Or will sales slow a bit once the
early-adopter binge has concluded? “The relative performance of all three
iPhones is generally in line with the performance of the similarly priced
phones following the launch of the iPhone 5 in 2012,” CIRP co-founder Josh
Lowitz told AllThingsD. “Over time, the lower-priced phones have tended to
gain share versus the flagship phone, after the initial rush of dedicated
upgraders to the newest device. So we expect that the 5c will account for a
higher percent of total U.S. iPhone sales in the coming months, but the design
changes may alter that dynamic. The iPhone 5c may appeal to different buyers
than the legacy 4S did last year, or the new 5s will this year.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131014/iphone-5s-outselling-iphone-5c-two-to-one/feed/
0 AllThingsD Week in Review: New iPads Ahead, HP's "Pivotal Year" and Women at
Twitter http://allthingsd.com/20131013/allthingsd-week-in-review-new-ipads-
ahead-hps-pivotal-year-and-women-at-twitter/
http://allthingsd.com/20131013/allthingsd-week-in-review-new-ipads-ahead-hps-
pivotal-year-and-women-at-twitter/#comments Sun, 13 Oct 2013 14:30:24 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=364997 In case you missed anything, here’s a quick
roundup of some of the news that powered AllThingsD this week: Sources
familiar with Apple’s plans told AllThingsD that the company’s fall iPad-
update event will be held on Oct. 22. Coincidentally (or not), that’s already
a busy date, allotted for a Nokia tablet event in Abu Dhabi and the start of
Microsoft’s Surface 2 shipments. Millions of people are familiar with Google’s
products, but how do the company’s many employees get their work done? Liz
Gannes got the inside scoop from Google’s Chief Information Officer Ben Fried.
Last weekend, Twitter CEO Dick Costolo came under fire after joking at the
expense of one of the critics lobbying for the addition of a woman to
Twitter’s board. Although some supporters of the pre-IPO social media
company’s current board makeup say there are too few women qualified to serve
on a tech board, the Class V Group’s founding principal, Lise Buyer, writes in
Voices that that’s not true at all. On Monday, Samsung publicly reminded the
Obama Administration that “the world [was] watching” to see if it would
overturn an ITC import ban on devices found to be infringing the patents owned
by Apple covering nonessential features of its devices. The appeal failed, and
the ban was upheld on Tuesday. Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman has a plan for
turning the computing and services giant around, and she laid it out for
investors this week. In a speech before analysts, Whitman called 2014 a
“pivotal year” for HP. Even after getting booted from the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, the company said its outlook for next year is good (although maybe
not great, depending on whom you ask). Speaking of HP, the company seems to be
taking a page — or most of a page, anyway — from the Yahoo playbook, by
requiring most employees not to work from home. Andrew Levy, CEO of mobile
bug-tracker Crittercism, says that “anytime there is new hardware or software
release, we see issues,” and, sure enough, that’s true for one of the new
iPhones. Apps on the 5s are crashing about twice as often as they are on the
iPhone 5 or 5c. The New York Times’ Nick Bilton is getting ready to publish a
tell-all book about the turbulent early days of Twitter. Among the juicy
details: After his ouster as Twitter’s CEO, co-founder Jack Dorsey phoned up
Mark Zuckerberg to talk about switching teams and working for Facebook. As
expected, BlackBerry has begun laying off employees at its headquarters,
starting on Monday with 300 pink slips. But a few big departures already
happened back in January, when seven members of The Astonishing Tribe quietly
ducked out. Meanwhile, Apple is trying to pick off some of BlackBerry’s top
talent by way of a well-attended jobs event. Usually, Apple products sell for
their full price for at least a month or two after launch. Not so with the new
iPhone 5c, which has seen a slew of price cuts by way of store credit. After
initially offering a $50 gift card for eligible purchasers of the 5c, Best Buy
ramped up its promotion on Thursday by offering $100 back on both of Apple’s
new phones. To stay on top of the latest, please follow AllThingsD on Twitter
and Facebook, and subscribe to our daily email newsletter. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131013/allthingsd-week-in-review-new-ipads-ahead-hps-
pivotal-year-and-women-at-twitter/feed/ 0 Apps on iPhone 5s Crashing at Twice
the Rate as on Other iPhone 5 Models http://allthingsd.com/20131011/apps-on-
iphone-5s-crashing-at-twice-the-rate-as-on-iphone-5-iphone-5c/
http://allthingsd.com/20131011/apps-on-iphone-5s-crashing-at-twice-the-rate-
as-on-iphone-5-iphone-5c/#comments Fri, 11 Oct 2013 12:00:59 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=364797 Whenever there is a new operating system, it’s
not surprising to see apps crash at a somewhat higher rate, given all the
changes. But one of the interesting things in Apple’s latest iPhone transition
is that apps appear to be crashing at a much higher rate on the new iPhone 5s
as on either the iPhone 5c or the iPhone 5. In its look at hundreds of
millions of app launches since the debut of the latest iPhones, Crittercism
says that programs crash about two percent on the iPhone 5s, as compared to
just under one percent on both the iPhone 5c and iPhone 5. “Anytime there is
new hardware or software release, we see issues,” Crittercism CEO Andrew Levy
said in an interview. “Inevitably, over time, those issues get resolved.” Levy
said that perhaps the reason the iPhone 5s is seeing more crashes than the
equally new iPhone 5c is that, while developers were able to check their apps
for compatibility with iOS 7 during several months of beta testing, the new
hardware wasn’t available ahead of time. The iPhone 5s packs a new 64-bit A7
chip and an M7 coprocessor, while the 5c is nearly identical, internally, to
the iPhone 5. An Apple representative declined to comment. Levy said that it’s
not uncommon to see higher crash ratios when new devices or operating systems
come out. And Apple has done a pretty good job of making a major transition —
the shift to 64-bit processors — nearly invisible. With past transitions,
including the move on the PC desktop to 64-bit, developers had to write new
drivers and other code. “The good news is that Apple is certainly aware of
issues,” Levy said. “They’ve pushed out two iOS updates for iOS 7 … Apple is
doing a really good job of addressing these issues as they come up.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131011/apps-on-iphone-5s-crashing-at-twice-the-rate-
as-on-iphone-5-iphone-5c/feed/ 0 Best Buy Confirms $100 Smartphone Trade-In
Promotion for Customers Buying Latest iPhones
http://allthingsd.com/20131010/best-buy-confirms-100-smartphone-trade-in-
promotion-for-customers-buying-latest-iphones/
http://allthingsd.com/20131010/best-buy-confirms-100-smartphone-trade-in-
promotion-for-customers-buying-latest-iphones/#comments Thu, 10 Oct 2013
16:22:42 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=364589 Aiming to get a greater share
of iPhone buyers, Best Buy is planning another promotion, this time
guaranteeing at least $100 credit with the trade-in of any working smartphone.
That makes the base-model iPhone 5c free with any trade-in, and the 16
gigabyte iPhone 5s available for $99 (though customers may still owe sales tax
on the new phone, and are responsible for any activation fees). And, of
course, customers have to be eligible for an upgrade to get those iPhone
prices. It’s the latest in a series of offers from Best Buy and other
retailers looking to convince would-be iPhone buyers to go with their store.
The promotion will run Oct. 13-19, a Best Buy representative told AllThingsD.
Best Buy Mobile stores, though, will start offering the promotion on the 5c
starting today. If the iPhone model a customer is looking for is not in stock,
they can get a rain check. Word of the Best Buy offer leaked out on Wednesday,
though the company did not confirm it until today. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131010/best-buy-confirms-100-smartphone-trade-in-
promotion-for-customers-buying-latest-iphones/feed/ 0 iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c
Headed to 50 New Markets by November 1
http://allthingsd.com/20131009/iphone-5s-and-iphone-5c-headed-to-50-new-
markets-by-november-1/ http://allthingsd.com/20131009/iphone-5s-and-
iphone-5c-headed-to-50-new-markets-by-november-1/#comments Wed, 09 Oct 2013
15:30:15 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=364200 Apple’s newest iPhones will
arrive at market in more than 50 countries by Nov. 1. On Oct. 25, the flagship
iPhone 5s and its sibling, the iPhone 5c, will go on sale in 35 new markets,
including Austria, Ireland, Italy, Russia, Spain and Taiwan. A week later, on
Nov. 1, the devices will begin shipping in an additional 35 countries. Among
them: India, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. You’ll find a full list of the
markets Apple has targeted for the next wave of iPhone releases here. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131009/iphone-5s-and-iphone-5c-headed-to-50-new-
markets-by-november-1/feed/ 0