Adaptly Adaptly Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram Linkedin
Linkedin Pinterest Pinterest Email Previous Next Search Clock Company
Solutions Insights News Careers Contact Us Login Whitepapers / Holidays A
Complete Guide to the Holidays: How to Boost Seasonal Campaigns & Creative
Every year the holiday season grows exponentially, and it might feel like
you’re repeating the same strategies over and over. While it can be valuable
to stick with your brand’s tried-and-true methods, there’s always a little
room to try something new. Our new holiday whitepaper will help you get
started this season, with all the learnings, trends, and stats you need to put
customers in the holiday spirit. After all, shoppers are estimated to spend
$1.3 trillion between Black Friday and Christmas this year. That’s an
opportunity no marketer can afford to miss. In this whitepaper, you’ll find:
Holiday timing recommendations Strategy tips for different platforms and
objectives A guide to mobile optimization for the season Top holiday creative
trends and tips Recommendations for international campaigns Click below to
download now. Office New York Share Categories Whitepapers Back To Insights >
Fill out form to access download Submit Download the full whitepaper Download
Let's Start Something Remarkable Today Contact Us Be Remarkable General
Inquiries contactus@adaptly.com 212-300-8599, ext. 417 Media Information
pr@adaptly.com New York 386 Park Ave South Floor 17 New York, NY 10016 London
20 Midtown 20 Procter Street London, WC1V 6NX Chicago 747 N LaSalle Drive
Suite 500 Chicago, IL 60654 Los Angeles 1411 5th Street Suite 405 Santa
Monica, CA 90401 San Francisco 981 Mission Street San Francisco, CA 94103
Detroit 1449 Woodward Avenue Detroit, MI 48226 Careers News Partners Our
Vision Privacy Policy Contact