Mossberg’s Mailbox In Search of a Virtual Keyboard App Published on October
15, 2013 by Walt Mossberg Q: I’m a former BlackBerry user who has been
struggling with the virtual keyboard on his Droid for years. I considered the
new BlackBerry, whose virtual keyboard you praised, but want a phone supported
by more app developers. I would appreciate your advice on which keyboard app
is easiest to operate now. A: The keyboard app I personally find best on
Android is called SwiftKey, which replaces the stock keyboard on Android
wherever it appears. It does a particularly good job of learning your writing
habits and predicting what word is likeliest to come next. It can even sync
these personal predictions across your Android devices. Q: With iGoogle going
away in a few weeks, what is your recommendation on a good replacement site?
A: There are a number of sites which, like iGoogle, aim to be your browser’s
home page, consolidating personalized selections of news, weather, sports,
stocks, calendar, search and more. My personal choice would be My Yahoo, which
even has instructions for importing your settings from iGoogle. To find
others, do a search for “iGoogle replacements.” Q: I don’t like the redesigned
calendar app in Apple’s iOS 7 for my iPad. Is there a way to restore the old
calendar? A: Not that I know of, but there are many alternative calendar apps
for iPads and iPhones, which can be found in the app store by searching for
“calendar.” Email Walt at mossberg@wsj.com. Return to: In Search of a Virtual
Keyboard App URL: http://allthingsd.com/20131015/in-search-of-a-virtual-
keyboard-app/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow
Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.