Adaptly Adaptly Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram Linkedin
Linkedin Pinterest Pinterest Email Previous Next Search Clock Company
Solutions Insights News Careers Contact Us Login ICYMI: 2017 Highlights and
2018 Trends Reading Time: 1 Minute This week: A look back at the biggest
social media events of 2017 as chronicled through this ICYMI blog series,
predictions for what 2018 will bring for online video, and how to plan a
multi-platform entertainment campaign on social. ICYMI: The Biggest Social
Media Events of 2017 | Adaptly 2017 was a year of big growth for social
platforms and big changes in the social advertising space. Every week we
chronicled the biggest updates across Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat,
Pinterest, and Twitter in this In Case You Missed It blog series, and now
we’ve visualized those updates in a timeline infographic. Check out the post
to revisit the new features and milestones that shaped the social media
landscape in 2017. What Will 2018 Bring For Online Video? | MediaPost After
phenomenal growth in 2017, social video and its trajectory for 2018 is top-of-
mind for social media experts. Adaptly CEO Nikhil Sethi predicts that 2018
will bring about the virtualization of television. Last year, most of the best
video content was distributed exclusively through online streaming. According
to Nik, “If the content moves online, all the time spent watching TV
programming will move online — and where all the eyeballs go, the ad dollars
will follow.” For more on how to think about TV and entertainment in a digital
and social-first world, check the below post on multi-platform campaign
planning. How to Plan a Multi-Platform Entertainment Campaign on Social |
Adaptly The key to advertising in a competitive landscape like entertainment
is utilizing a full-funnel approach to reach viewers across multiple channels.
Creating a tailored strategy and unique creative for each social platform
enables advertisers to target users in different mindsets across social media.
Find out how one Adaptly advertiser achieved a 29-point lift in ad recall by
targeting new and existing fans on multiple social platforms. Chandler Sopko
Marketing Manager Chandler has been with Adaptly for 3 years, bringing her
marketing background and love of social media to the ad tech scene. When she
isn’t looking at pictures of food on Instagram she can be found doing the
crossword or exploring New York City. Office New York Share Categories Blog
Back To Blog > Fill out form to access download Submit Let's Start Something
Remarkable Today Contact Us Keep up with the latest advertising trends and
insights. No spam, we promise. Comments Subscribe Be Remarkable General
Inquiries contactus@adaptly.com 212-300-8599, ext. 417 Media Information
pr@adaptly.com New York 386 Park Ave South Floor 17 New York, NY 10016 London
20 Midtown 20 Procter Street London, WC1V 6NX Chicago 747 N LaSalle Drive
Suite 500 Chicago, IL 60654 Los Angeles 1411 5th Street Suite 405 Santa
Monica, CA 90401 San Francisco 981 Mission Street San Francisco, CA 94103
Detroit 1449 Woodward Avenue Detroit, MI 48226 Careers News Partners Our
Vision Privacy Policy Contact