Media AOL Bets Big on Web Video News With HuffPost Live (And on Tape)
Published on August 13, 2012 by Peter Kafka After a very long drum roll, the
Huffington Post launches HuffPost Live, its streaming Web video news
operation, this morning. If you’ve watched the streaming video that other
newspapers and Web sites have put out, you’ll have a good idea of what to
expect at 10 am ET today: Something that approximates the form of cable news,
but with Webbier sensibilities and production values. But HuffPost Live will
stand out from the stuff you’ve seen from the likes of Politico, the New York
Times and The Wall Street Journal (which, like this Web site, is owned by News
Corp.), in a couple ways. For starters, the site’s interface will look a lot
different from its peers.Â Yes, you’ll still see talking heads, talking. But
you’ll also see a lot of bells and whistles designed to highlight and
encourage comments from viewers, including a “join this segment” feature that
is supposed to let people chime in live via Webcam. HuffPost Live will also
spend a lot of time â¦ live. While many of its competitors spend some time
streaming live, HuffPo will be showing 12 hours of live programming a day, and
HuffPost Live head Roy Sekoff thinks he can ramp that up to 16 hours next
year. Still, most of HuffPost Live’s traffic will likely come from Web surfers
who find clips after the fact. And while lots of other news operations are
tackling Web video by hiring a few producers and tech experts, then asking
their existing staff to stand in front of a camera, HuffPo has bet big on this
launch, with a staff of 100. You’ll see existing HuffPo talent on the screen
from time to time, but almost everyone working on the video show has joined
the company in recent months. Here’s an edited version of an interview I
conducted with Sekoff last week, as his team was putting its finishing touches
on the new channel. Kafka: There are a lot of news sites trying to do some
kind of video programming now. But none of them are throwing 100 people at it.
Why go this big? Sekoff: I felt like I wanted to do something that was
disruptive. You can go down the list, of all the people who are doing [web
video], and it all looks the same — television not done very well. That wasn’t
of interest. I just didn’t think we could be disruptive by doing the same
thing — shooting editorial meetings, or shooting the newsroom with a reporter
coming in and just chatting. And you’re stressing the live component, and
especially live commenting, much more than anyone else, too. We want the
community to be very involved, front and center. We want them to be an
integral part of our programming, not an afterthought. Not “We have this
expert, and we have that person Skyped in, and oh, John in Wyoming â¦ sorry,
we don’t have time for you, John.” The only way to do that is if you’re live,
in real time. Because you can’t get people to join you [otherwise]. You can’t
do call-in radio on tape delay. But like everyone else who does video, most of
the views you’ll get won’t be from people watching live, right? In order to
join us live, we have to be live. [But] the other part of our business is very
much on video-on-demand. People want premium video content. How can you create
a tremendous amount of video content at scale? [This] is actually a very cost
effective way. That’s one of the reasons we’re doing the 12 hours. We want to
be there when things are happening [and] we want to be able to churn out
material. Every time we do a live segment, we’re clipping. We’re taking the
best things that come up, and we’re embedding them in HuffPost stories. So on-
demand drives views and dollars. And you’ll also have live, which is a nice
option. Exactly. Return to: AOL Bets Big on Web Video News With HuffPost Live
(And on Tape) URL: http://allthingsd.com/20120813/aol-bets-big-on-web-video-
news-with-huffpost-live-and-taped/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal |
© 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.