News Dell Shares Crash After Hours on Revenue Miss Published on August 16,
2011 by Arik Hesseldahl Shares of Dell are down about four percent in after-
hours trading as it reported quarterly earnings that reliably beat the
consensus of analysts but sales that fell short of expectations. While Dell’s
per-share earnings were 54 cents, about five cents ahead of the consensus,
sales were $15.66 billion, a full $100 million shy of what analysts expected.
Worse, Dell said it expects revenue in the third quarter to be “roughly flat”
relative to the second quarter, which it said would be consistent with typical
seasonal patterns seen over the last two years. There’s more: Dell slashed its
sales growth outlook for the year. It said it now expects revenue to grow in a
range of one to five percent, down from its previous range of five to nine
percent. CEO Michael Dell tried to reassure investors of an eventual
turnaround in a statement: “We continue to see great momentum in the high-
growth areas of our business, which is a direct reflection of the discipline
and strong execution our global Dell team is applying to help solve real-world
challenges for our customers. Weâre creating efficiency across every step of
the IT value chain and ultimately enabling all customers — from home users to
large businesses and government organizations — to achieve the outcomes that
matter most to them.” It wasn’t enough to calm skittish investors: Dell shares
initially fell as much as six percent on the news, and are as of 1:25 pm
Pacific Time trading down 4.2 percent, or 64 cents. Return to: Dell Shares
Crash After Hours on Revenue Miss URL: http://allthingsd.com/20110816/dell-
shares-crash-after-hours-on-revenue-miss/ Brought to you by The Wall Street
Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.