AI Home Company History FAQ Testimonials Contact Info Technology Introduction
Technical Reports Documentation Videos Licensing Blog Parallella.org
Technology Licensing Adapteva’s Epiphany silicon proven processor technology
has been in development since 2008 and has shipped to over 10,000 customers to
date. The following IP products are available for qualified commercial
entities. Interested parties should send an email to support@adapteva.com.
Epiphany Architecture License: The Epiphany processor and Network-On-Chip
technology is available as configurable Verilog RTL. The configurable IP
allows enables automatic generation of 2D arrays for processing elements with
performance scalable to over 100TOPS at 16nm. Configurations possible:
Processing elements: Epiphany CPU or emesh compatible accelerator at every
node Mesh Networks: 1-8 Address width: 16/32/64 Floating Point Format: 32/64
Integer Format: 8/16/32/64 Selectable: DMA, interrupt controller, timers Local
Memory Banks: 2-4 Local SRAM size: 1-64KB Epiphany-V Processor IP: Taped out
DARPA sponsored 64-bit 1024-core processor IP available at TSMC 16nm process
node. Available as soft IP (Verilog RTL) and as hard macro GDS. A description
of the device can be found HERE. Epiphany-IV Processor IP: Silicon proven
32-bit 64-core processor IP available at Globalfoundries 28nm process node.
Available as soft IP (Verilog RTL) and as hard macro GDS. This product has
shipped to two Tier-1 base station vendors and has has been thoroughly
validated through external unbiased publications. The datasheet for the
64-core silicon device can be found HERE. Epiphany-III Processor IP: Silicon
proven 32-bit 16-core processor IP available at Globalfoundries 65nm process
node. Available as soft IP (Verilog RTL) and as hard macro GDS. This product
has shipped to over 10,000 customers across the globe as part of the
Parallella project. It has been thoroughly validated through external unbiased
publications. The datasheet for the 16-core silicon device can be found HERE.
Latest Posts Adapteva status update Epiphany-V Analysis Epiphany-V: A
1024-core 64-bit RISC processor Adapteva announces 1,000 Teraflops accelerator
chip for deep learning Dude, Where’s My Community? Copyright Adapteva, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.