Media With Steam Machines on the Horizon, Valve Makes Its Linux Love Official
Published on December 4, 2013 by Eric Johnson Linux mascot Tux the penguin
with a cake bearing the logo of Valve’s games store, Steam.“Gabe Newell is the
Steve Jobs of the gaming industry.” That’s Linux Foundation executive director
Jim Zemlin, praising the managing director of Valve. It’s not an uncommon
sentiment — Newell’s games studio, which he co-founded in 1996, frequently
earns comparisons to Apple by way of its rabid fans and quality-over-quantity
philosophy. But Zemlin isn’t just saying that because he’s a fan. This year,
Valve made a big commitment to Linux by pledging that the open-source
operating system would be at the core of its PC-console hybrid gaming hardware
line, the Steam Machines. Today, Valve is officially becoming a paying
corporate member of the Linux Foundation. With dozens of other companies
already filling up the membership ranks, this is more a symbolic step than
anything else. However, it makes official Valve’s previously assumed goodwill
toward the Foundation’s cadre of fellow pro-Linux companies and open-source
developers, whom it might need as the first Steam Machines start to come to
market next year. “People shouldnât underestimate the Linux communityâs
desire to have gaming on the platform, and for it to be insanely good,” Zemlin
said. Indeed, Valve’s Linux-cheering this year — even though the vast majority
of its users currently game on Windows — seems to be a long-term bet. Zemlin
characterized it as a necessary move to keep Valve’s popular PC games store,
Steam, safe from Microsoft’s own app and games stores for Windows 8 and the
Xbox consoles. With Valve now promising not to make exclusive games for Steam
Machines, there are plenty of unanswered questions about how it will be
competitive with the Xbox and, well, everyone else in the living room. Zemlin,
of course, doesn’t seem too worried. “Valve is immediately going to get more
awareness within the developer community,” he said. “It only takes one big
hit.” Return to: With Steam Machines on the Horizon, Valve Makes Its Linux
Love Official URL: http://allthingsd.com/20131204/with-steam-machines-on-the-
horizon-valve-makes-its-linux-love-official/ Brought to you by The Wall Street
Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.