Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Products &
Services Pipeline Innovative Diagnostic Pipeline Adding new pages to the story
of the adaptive immune system At Adaptive, we’re investing in the continued
development of blood-based diagnostic applications of our platform, which add
new meaning to the stories every patient’s immune system has to tell. Early
Detection We are developing a suite of diagnostic tests to detect cancer and
other diseases at their earliest stage, when they can be more effectively
treated, by learning which signals the activated immune receptors in a
patient’s blood are specifically responding to. By combining Adaptive’s immune
profiling technologies with Microsoft’s large-scale machine learning and cloud
computing capabilities, we are working to achieve our ultimate goal of
creating a universal diagnostic for disease detection, all from a simple blood
test. More on Antigen Map Immuno-Competence For a decade, we have been
studying and quantifying the properties of a robust, healthy adaptive immune
system. Now, we are applying these measurable properties in the context of
clinical trials across disease states, including transplantation and
immunotherapy, to assess whether the presence of a diverse immune repertoire
in a patient’s blood can inform prognosis or predict responses in the clinic.
We are also assessing the clinical relevance of a focused and robust immune
response within tumor tissue prior to treatment to predict and monitor
response to immunotherapy. Immuno-Competence Publications Quantifying size and
diversity of the human T cell allo response Immune
reconstitution/immunocompetence in recipients of kidney plus hematopoietic
stem/facilitating cell transplants T cell repertoire following autologous stem
cell transplantation for multiple sclerosis Immuno-Competence Presentations
Neoadjuvant immune checkpoint blockade in high-risk resectable melanoma
Contribution of systemic and somatic factors to clinical response and
resistance to PD-L1 blockade in urothelial cancer: An exploratory multi-omic
analysis PD-1 blockade induces responses by inhibiting adaptive immune
resistance Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888) 522-8988 Immune
Profiling PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products & ServicesLIFE
SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ® Pipeline DRUG
DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular Therapy
Antigen Map Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur Story
Culture Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All
Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy
HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses