AllThingsD » BlackBerry Feature http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014
15:45:11 +0000 en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Deleting Emails on an iPad
http://allthingsd.com/20110420/deleting-emails-on-an-ipad/
http://allthingsd.com/20110420/deleting-emails-on-an-ipad/#comments Thu, 21
Apr 2011 01:00:28 +0000 http://mailbox.allthingsd.com/?p=898 Q: How can I
erase multiple emails on my iPad all at once? A: Just go to your message list
and click “Edit” in the upper right-hand corner. A circle will appear beside
each email message. Simply tap the circle beside all the messages you wish to
delete, and then press the red Delete button at the bottom left. All the
messages you selected will be erased simultaneously. Q: Signing up for a new
service recently, I was told to access the service from a “secure” computer.
What constitutes a secure computer? Is a computer at the library secure? A:
There’s no precise definition of which I’m aware. However, I would say a
secure computer is one whose owner or operator has put in place all commonly
used security measures, such as turning on the firewall and running up-to-date
security software on Windows. It would also involve making sure the network on
which the computer runs has security measures in place. As for computers in
libraries, my view is that people should avoid performing confidential tasks
on a computer that uses any public network, whether in a library or a coffee
shop. Q: Do the BlackBerry Curve or Bold have an Internet radio app like the
ones that work with an iPhone? A: There are multiple Internet radio apps
available for current BlackBerry models through the BlackBerry App World
store. Among these are TuneIn Radio, iheartradio, and Wunder Radio. I haven’t
tested them, so I can’t recommend one over another. If you’re shopping for a
new BlackBerry, and want to determine if a particular app runs on that model,
you can check the Get Details section of the app listing in the web version of
the store, at http://bit.ly/18lmvX. Write to Walter S. Mossberg at
mossberg@wsj.com ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110420/deleting-emails-on-an-
ipad/feed/ 1 PlayBook: A Tablet With a Case Of Codependency
http://allthingsd.com/20110413/rim-blackberry-playbook-review/
http://allthingsd.com/20110413/rim-blackberry-playbook-review/#comments Thu,
14 Apr 2011 01:04:03 +0000 http://ptech.allthingsd.com/?p=1865 Now entering
the tablet wars: the BlackBerry PlayBook, a contender from Research In Motion,
maker of the iconic smartphone. Unlike most tablets aiming to take on the iPad
juggernaut, the PlayBook, which I’ve been testing for five days, doesn’t run
on Google’s Android operating system, nor does it run on RIM’s own aging phone
software. It uses a new tablet OS that is handsome and quick, and looks
different from Apple’s and Google’s. I enjoyed the user interface. But that
isn’t the biggest distinction between the PlayBook and the other tablets. This
first edition of the PlayBook has no built-in cellular data connection and
lacks such basic built-in apps as an email program, a contacts program, a
calendar, a memo pad and even RIM’s popular BlackBerry Messenger chat system.
To get these features with your $500 PlayBook, you must use it with a nearby
BlackBerry phone connected to it wirelessly over a short-range Bluetooth
connection. Once this link is made, these critical applications pop up on the
PlayBook’s screen, via a system called Bridge. But these are essentially
ghosts of the same apps on the phone. In my tests, I could use them from the
tablet, where they looked nicer, and they did synchronize with the phone. But
when I broke the connection, the apps became grayed-out and the data they held
disappeared. It is all stored on the phone. This odd system, aimed at pleasing
security-concerned corporate customers, doesn’t work with other smartphones.
So, in my view, even though Bridge is a neat technical feat, it makes the
PlayBook a companion to a BlackBerry phone rather than a fully independent
device. That may be fine for dedicated BlackBerry owners, but it isn’t so
great for people with other phones. PlayBook owners with other phones must do
things such as email and calendar tasks on the tablet using Web-based apps
like Google’s or Yahoo’s via the PlayBook’s browser. All other phones can do
is provide the PlayBook an Internet connection using their hot-spot features.
The PlayBook, which goes on sale April 19, will match the prices of the Wi-Fi
versions of the Apple iPad, starting at $499 for a base model with 16
gigabytes of storage—albeit with a screen that, at 7 inches, offers less than
half the surface area of the iPad’s. RIM says it is planning to add built-in
cellular data, email, contacts, calendar and the other missing core features
to the PlayBook this summer, via software updates. But until then, I can’t
recommend the PlayBook over a fully standalone tablet, except possibly for
folks whose BlackBerrys never leave their sides. There are other reasons for
my hesitation. For one, unlike the iPad, which can run almost all of the
350,000 iPhone apps, the PlayBook can’t run any of the 27,000 BlackBerry apps.
It will launch with only about 3,000 apps designed for tablets, compared with
65,000 tablet-optimized iPad apps. RIM also plans to release this summer
special players or emulators that will allow the PlayBook to run BlackBerry
apps and even Android apps. But the latter, while numerous, will be apps
designed for the smartphone versions of Android, not the newer tablet version.
It’s too early to say how these apps will perform via the special player. I
got the strong impression RIM is scrambling to get the product to market, and
that it will be adding other features already offered on competing devices for
months, through software patches. For instance, although the PlayBook has very
nice front and rear cameras, it comes without video-chatting software. That
will be added soon after launch, RIM says. The same goes for a video store,
even though the screen renders videos beautifully and a built-in connector
outputs gorgeous high-definition video to a TV over a cable. The built-in
Photos app offers no functions for sharing pictures, another feature the
company is considering adding later. There is no one-touch icon for airplane
mode. You can’t yet add Web bookmarks to the home screen, though some ship
with the device. Battery life also fell short in my tests. With the screen
brightness at about 75% and Wi-Fi on, I played a movie I had transferred from
a computer over and over until the juice ran out. The PlayBook lasted a bit
over five hours, well short of the company’s claim of eight to 10 hours for
mixed use. In mixed use, and on a second test of watching video with Wi-Fi
off, I did better, over six hours, but well short of the 10 hours on the iPad
2. Plus, I ran into a few bugs, including a scenario where the memory ran out
prematurely. This persisted after a major software update that was supposed to
fix it. RIM is now blaming the bug on a single app, which it says will be
fixed by launch. The PlayBook’s user interface takes a clean and attractive
approach. So is there anything good about the PlayBook? Actually, yes. I
really liked the user interface of the new operating system, which is based on
software RIM bought called QNX. It’s smooth and fast, and makes excellent use
of multitouch gestures. An area at the bottom of the screen holds the icons,
which are divided into sections like “All,” “Media,” “Games” and “Favorites.”
When you have multiple apps open, large images of them appear at the top of
the screen, and you can scroll though them. It’s a very clean, attractive
approach. The browser, while sometimes slow to load, is highly capable, even
on sites designed for a regular computer, and does the best job with Flash
video and Flash sites I have ever seen on a tablet—far better than on any
Android device I’ve tested. I couldn’t find a Flash video the PlayBook
couldn’t handle, and it even breezed through a site written entirely in Flash,
which other Flash-capable mobile devices couldn’t. The iPad, of course, can’t
use Flash at all. The hardware is sturdy and the back has a nice rubberized
feel. While the PlayBook is 14% thicker than the iPad 2, it’s about one-third
lighter. This lower weight, combined with its smaller overall size, will
appeal to people who find the Apple product too large. The screen is
beautiful, even though it has a lower resolution than the iPad’s. And the
cameras are better than the iPad’s. Still, unless you are constantly glued to
a BlackBerry phone, or do all your email, contacts and calendar tasks via a
browser, I recommend waiting on the PlayBook until more independently usable
versions with the promised additions are available. Find all of Walt
Mossberg’s columns and videos at walt.allthingsd.com. Email him at
mossberg@wsj.com. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110413/rim-blackberry-playbook-
review/feed/ 0 Analyst Sees BlackBerry PlayBook Buzz Building Ahead of Rumored
April Launch http://allthingsd.com/20110318/analyst-sees-blackberry-playbook-
buzz-building-ahead-of-rumored-april-launch/
http://allthingsd.com/20110318/analyst-sees-blackberry-playbook-buzz-building-
ahead-of-rumored-april-launch/#comments Fri, 18 Mar 2011 18:05:26 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=58796 RIM’s BlackBerry PlayBook doesn’t
yet have a firm price or launch date–though new rumors suggest it may arrive
at market by mid-April–but already there is developing demand for it–according
to some analysts, anyway. In a research note issued this morning, Peter Misek
of Jeffries said early indications from retailers and others point toward
pent-up demand for the device. “We were optimistic about the PlayBook but were
still surprised at how positive the feedback has been from the channel and
retailers regarding the product,” he writes. “Many view the tethering as a
positive since it does not require a separate data plan, and enterprises see
it as an easy fit into their existing security and device management
protocols.” Misek, too, expects the PlayBook to launch in April. And he
doesn’t seem much bothered by predictions that it will be “dead on arrival.”
The PlayBook isn’t going to be a flop, he said. And there are four reasons
why: It’s effectively a PC category player. Therefore any sales are
incremental and importantly create new avenues of growth and expansion. It’s
been a success with enterprises that have trialed it. Its lack of native
calendar and email applications isn’t the deficit that it’s been made out to
be, since accessing those functions from a browser as one might do on a PC is
logical and easy. It will account for far less than 10 percent of sales and
earnings in even the most optimistic models on the Street. Plausible reasons,
certainly. But ones potentially subsumed by a few remaining wild cards Misek
doesn’t note: price (not specified beyond RIM’s co-CEO’s claim of “under
$500”), battery life (also not yet specified), the size of the PlayBook’s app
ecosystem (will it support Android apps?) and the breadth of its distribution
channel. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110318/analyst-sees-blackberry-playbook-
buzz-building-ahead-of-rumored-april-launch/feed/ 10 BlackBerry PlayBook:
Looks Good on Paper, But… http://allthingsd.com/20110202/blackberry-playbook-
looks-good-on-paper-but/ http://allthingsd.com/20110202/blackberry-playbook-
looks-good-on-paper-but/#comments Wed, 02 Feb 2011 11:50:20 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=56937 The PlayBook’s hardware specs
might beat anything on the market, its QNX OS might be rock solid and its “Web
fidelity” might outshine that of the iPad, but Research in Motion’s
forthcoming “professional tablet” will be poorly received when it finally
ships. This according to Wedge Partners analyst Brian Blair, who believes the
device to be signifigantly flawed and claims it will be “dead on arrival.” A
scathing appraisal, but Blair has his reasons. The PlayBook’s lack of native
calendar and email applications, a core RIM strength that has oddly been left
out of the device’s first iteration. The need to tether it to a BlackBerry to
access those applications, a feature intended to appeal to enterprise by
obviating the need for additional security measures, but one that will
inevitably alientate non-BlackBerry users. A profound lack of applications and
a sub-par application storefront. No easy mechanism for content delivery and
consumption. “How will users get music or movies on there?” Blair asks.
“Through the BlackBerry Desktop download manager? Well, we have tried this and
it isn’t easy.” (Considered drag-and-drop, Brian? Not the most elegant
solution, I know, but a solution nonetheless). These are the makings of a
sharply inferior tablet, Blair argues. To launch it in a market alongside the
likes of the iPad and its successor, as well as with forthcoming offerings
from HP’s Palm unit and Motorola, is folly. “The PlayBook demo impresses many
people, including many tech writers, and we believe it’s because of the
outstanding multitasking capability that is showcased in a coverflow manner,”
Blair concludes. “This slickly shows apps running in the background while a
main app runs in the foreground. While we agree this is a leap over what other
tablet operating systems can do, we see it as a visual ‘smoke and mirrors’
because of the aforementioned shortfalls in getting content onto the device,
offering limited applications, and excluding a native email application. In
short, the PlayBook’s screen and hardware specs and multitasking capability
look excellent on paper, but without the other pieces to the puzzle, it feels
in many ways like an expensive web browser.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110202/blackberry-playbook-looks-good-on-paper-
but/feed/ 75 RIM Gives India Access to Consumer Messaging
http://allthingsd.com/20110113/rim-gives-india-access-to-consumer-messaging/
http://allthingsd.com/20110113/rim-gives-india-access-to-consumer-
messaging/#comments Thu, 13 Jan 2011 16:57:43 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=55716 Research In Motion has finally
settled its long-running dispute with the Indian government over its
BlackBerry Messenger Service–part of it, anyway. It has given wireless
carriers in the country the ability to intercept messages sent over its
BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) service and BlackBerry Internet Service (BIS) if
requested by the government. “The lawful access capability now available to
RIM’s carrier partners meets the standard required by the government of India
for all consumer messaging services offered in the Indian marketplace,” RIM
said in a customer update. Well, not quite. The Indian government also wants
access to communications sent over RIM’s corporate service. The company hasn’t
yet provided that and continues to argue that it’s impossible to do so. “No
changes can be made to the security architecture for BlackBerry Enterprise
Server customers since, contrary to any rumors, the security architecture is
the same around the world and RIM truly has no ability to provide its
customers’ encryption keys,” RIM explained in its customer update. In other
words, the solution RIM has provided is a partial one. It still hasn’t met one
of the Indian government’s key demands. Will this concession on BBM and BIS be
enough to mollify it? ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20110113/rim-gives-india-
access-to-consumer-messaging/feed/ 0 Weathering the Storm, RIM Makes Its
Business Case in Boston http://allthingsd.com/20110113/weathering-the-storm-
rim-makes-its-business-case-in-boston/
http://allthingsd.com/20110113/weathering-the-storm-rim-makes-its-business-
case-in-boston/#comments Thu, 13 Jan 2011 15:11:48 +0000
http://mobilized.allthingsd.com/?p=2394 Mobilized is trudging through the snow
in Beantown Thursday to hear Research In Motion talk about its plans for the
enterprise. RIM is set to talk about why businesses should bet on both the
BlackBerry and the forthcoming PlayBook tablet. Angry Birds for the
BlackBerry. Update, 10:17 am ET: The intro is still going on. RIM Vice
President Alec Taylor is talking about the Cuban Missile Crisis for some
reason. However, RIM was nice enough to pass out slides for the whole day.
Here are some of the highlights: BlackBerry Mobile Voice System Launching in
early 2011, this is an update to RIM’s effort to unify the desk and mobile
phone, offering a single identity, voiceover Wi-Fi calling, a single voicemail
box, dialing office extensions and more. RIM says the new version will support
more types of business phone systems. Other features coming later this year
include automatic hand-off from Wi-Fi to mobile networks, a “move call from
desk” feature and more. BlackBerry Balance A new effort to support mixing
personal and corporate data on the BlackBerry. RIM is adding features such as
the ability for IT to choose to wipe only corporate information from a device
or to limit users from cutting work data and pasting it into a personal
application or email. Other features include warnings when sending emails or
calendar invites outside of the organization, the ability to encrypt media
cards and options for preventing access to work data by third-party
applications. BlackBerry client for Microsoft SharePoint Launching in early
2011, this will bring data from Microsoft’s portal software directly to
BlackBerry handhelds. It will work with both the 2007 and 2010 versions of
SharePoint and integrates into a number of BlackBerry programs, including
E-mail, calendar, Documents To Go and the browser. PlayBook As for the
forthcoming tablet, RIM says it will ship with 1GB of memory, have 16GB, 32GB
or 64GB of flash memory, include a 3-megapixel front-facing and 5-megapixel
rear-facing camera and have micro USB and Micro HDMI ports. (I can’t remember
if they have said all of that before.) The slides say only that it will ship
this quarter and will be “competitively priced,” reiterating past company
positioning. According to the slides, the company also plans to talk about
cloud-based device management and changes to allow one BlackBerry server to
support multiple corporations. 10:35 am ET: The Cuban Missile Crisis is
apparently over, and VP Pete Devenyi is now outlining the company’s business
product road map and making the pitch for its strategy. “We really do have a
great story,” he says, noting that the enterprise is different from the “arms
race” of the consumer market. “It’s not just about the number of apps in App
world,” he says, noting that businesses can and are building programs just for
use within the corporation. Some businesses, he says, have hundreds of
internal apps, none of which show up in the public storefront. BlackBerry, he
says, also allows businesses better control than rivals over what programs are
on a worker’s device. For example, Devenyi says, when workers change groups
within a company, the programs they have access to can be updated
automatically with programs deleted and added from their devices. “That kind
of power is power that no one else has,” he says. “We don’t read about that
much.” 10:43 am: In addition to both the paid BlackBerry Enterprise Server and
the slimmed-down free “Express” version of the server, RIM plans to launch an
email system aimed directly at small-to-midsize businesses–MDaemon Messaging
Server, BlackBerry Edition. The idea is to give smaller businesses a full
email server that has full BlackBerry support. The product stems from an
acquisition RIM made a year or two ago and offers what RIM says are features
similar to Microsoft’s Exchange Server but at a fraction of the price. The
company is also launching “very, very soon” a modest update to its flagship
server product, BlackBerry Enterprise Server 5.0.3. It will add more support
for employee-owned devices (including the BlackBerry Balance feature described
earlier), support for encrypted attachments and certification for Microsoft’s
Office Communications Server 2007 R2 and the latest version, known as Lync
2010. 11:18 am: RIM is launching yet another server this year, known as the
BlackBerry Enterprise Application Middleware (BEAM). BEAM, which companies
would have to buy in addition to their BlackBerry email server, aims to
streamline enterprise content for use on a BlackBerry. ‘What that results in
is a much more efficient application than you would otherwise have,” Devenyi
says. It’s in beta now, he adds. 11:25 am: BlackBerry is launching its
equivalent of Find My Phone, known as BlackBerry Protect, which will allow
individuals to remotely wipe or post a message if a device is lost. Protect
will launch later this year, Devenyi says. Finally, the company is talking
about a number of changes it is making to the core BlackBerry Enterprise
Server so that it can run via the cloud. Launching later this year, RIM will
have the ability for its server product to be remotely hosted and support more
than one business. It’s not clear yet if this will be RIM offering BlackBerry
as a cloud-based service or if this is a product for hosting partners, though
it sounds more like the latter. 11:32 am: Devenyi told Mobilized that the
company is just showing the architectural changes it is making, not saying how
it will bring the cloud-based capabilities to market. “We’re still working
through a number of those details ourselves.” Devenyi said. “It could be both,
but we are not announcing.” 11:42 am: On to the PlayBook finally. Senior
Product manager Ryan Bidan gives the spiel. He says there is a lot that the
company isn’t ready to share. Addressing concerns around battery life, Bidan
notes the PlayBook has a 5300-miliamp battery, but doesn’t give specifics on
how much battery life that will translate to. “We’ll have good battery life,”
he says. “Don’t worry about the battery life.” Other details: Software updates
will be pushed down to the device on an ongoing basis. There will be a version
of App World on the device for downloading developer-created programs. And
with that, the formal part of the event is over. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110113/weathering-the-storm-rim-makes-its-business-
case-in-boston/feed/ 0 Choosing a Windows PC
http://allthingsd.com/20100825/choosing-a-windows-pc/
http://allthingsd.com/20100825/choosing-a-windows-pc/#comments Thu, 26 Aug
2010 00:34:01 +0000 http://mailbox.allthingsd.com/?p=718 Q: I’m shopping for a
new Windows PC. Once I choose the processor brand and speed, the amount of
memory, the brand and capacity of hard drive, etc., does it matter which PC I
buy? Since none of the PC companies make their own components, isn’t price the
only differentiating factor (apart from warranties and tech support)? A:
You’re right that many Windows PCs are made from the same or similar
components. In fact, many are made by the same handful of contract
manufacturers in China. But there are differences. Manufacturers mix and match
parts from different suppliers, develop or select different designs, load
their machines with different added software, and, as you say, offer different
qualities of warranties and tech support. On certain models, they also
introduce innovative engineering from time to time. I have certainly noted
differences in my testing over the years in things like battery life,
keyboards and screens. Q: I recently purchased a new Dell Latitude laptop. The
problem is irritating programs which recently began appearing on the screen,
unrequested and unappreciated. One has a title of “Dell ControlPoint” and the
other is titled “Windows Live Messenger.” I don’t want these programs. How do
I get rid of them? A: These are programs that were bundled with your computer.
If you don’t want them, you should be able to go into your Control Panel, to
“Programs and Features” (assuming you’re using Windows 7) and uninstall them.
You should find them in the list of programs that appears there, and can then
simply select them and choose “uninstall.” In the case of Messenger, you will
likely have to look for it in the list under “Windows Live Essentials.” Q: How
would you compare the new Blackberry Torch to Samsung’s Galaxy S phones? A:
They are very different devices. The most important difference is that three
of the four Galaxy S models lack a physical keyboard, while the Torch has one.
Also, the Torch has only a 3.2 inch screen, while the Samsung models have much
larger 4 inch screens. In addition, the Torch, while sporting a refreshed
interface, still looks and works like a BlackBerry, while the Galaxy S phones
have the more modern-looking Android operating system, and access to Android’s
70,000 apps. The Torch can only use 9,000 apps. Finally, the Torch is (so far)
available only on AT&T;, while the Galaxy S is a family of devices that will
shortly be available on all four major US carriers, albeit under different
model names. Write to Walter S. Mossberg at walt.mossberg@wsj.com ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100825/choosing-a-windows-pc/feed/ 4 BlackBerry Torch:
Prices So Hot, They're on Fire http://allthingsd.com/20100817/blackberry-
torch-prices-so-hot-theyre-on-fire/ http://allthingsd.com/20100817/blackberry-
torch-prices-so-hot-theyre-on-fire/#comments Tue, 17 Aug 2010 16:30:06 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46575 UPDATE: Well, that’s what I get
for living in the Apple ecosystem and never having the opportunity to go
bargain-hunting for a phone. As one of my esteemed colleagues so graciously
points out in the comments, lots of newer phones are steeply discounted on
Amazon, some (like the Torch) as soon as the day of release. So the deals
offered on the Torch can’t really be read as an indicator of demand, one way
or the other. Chastened, I will humbly await additional data before
speculating further on its success. ………………… Launched last Thursday, Research
in Motion’s new BlackBerry Torch is already being sold at a discount–and
significant one, too. First offered at $199.99 with a two-year contract, you
can find the Torch for $99.99 by Amazon and Wirefly, as well (AT&T; continues
to offer it for the original price). This seems an ominous sign. The Torch may
well be the best BlackBerry yet, as RIM (RIMM) claims, but halving its price
so early suggests that Droid- and iPhone-addled consumers may not really care.
That said, Torch sales are more likely to be driven by upgrades from existing
BlackBerry users than by converts. So RIM is selling to its base here, which
isn’t a bad thing given its size (a near-50 percent share of the U.S. market).
Said Gleacher and Co. analyst Mark McKechnie, “We had not expected a consumer
phenomenon à la the iPhone 4 or MOT’s Droid X as we view the Torch as largely
an upgrade for loyal BlackBerry road warriors. While hard to quantify, early
feedback is that most buyers are ‘ugpraders’ — i.e. existing BlackBerry users
replacing older units. Thus the sales will add to the overall device sales but
not the subscriber additions.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100817/blackberry-
torch-prices-so-hot-theyre-on-fire/feed/ 0 Put the BlackBerry Box Next to King
Abdullah's WoW Server http://allthingsd.com/20100806/put-the-blackberry-box-
next-to-king-abdullahs-wow-server/ http://allthingsd.com/20100806/put-the-
blackberry-box-next-to-king-abdullahs-wow-server/#comments Fri, 06 Aug 2010
20:08:57 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46340 Is there a ban on
BlackBerry services in Saudi Arabia, or isn’t there? Earlier this week the
kingdom’s Communication and Information Technology Commission ordered a
suspension of some BlackBerry services that was to begin today and continue
until Research in Motion (RIMM) addressed the national security concerns it
raised about lack of access to BlackBerry data. Yet after a temporary outage
this morning, BlackBerry service appears to be operating normally, and
customer service reps at some Saudi carriers say they haven’t yet been told
that a ban would be implemented. “If there are any changes to the service, all
the customers will get a text message alerting them of that, but as of now
nothing has changed,” a Mobily rep told The Wall Street Journal. So what’s
going on? Obviously some last-minute talks among all the parties involved,
evidently talks that may result in RIM locating a server inside Saudi Arabia
that would allow authorities there to access encrypted BlackBerry
communications. “We are testing technical solutions with RIM…servers to be
more exact,” a source familiar with the matter told Reuters. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100806/put-the-blackberry-box-next-to-king-abdullahs-
wow-server/feed/ 0 RIM CEO: If You're Going to Ban the BlackBerry, You Might
as Well Ban the Internet Too http://allthingsd.com/20100805/qotd-328/
http://allthingsd.com/20100805/qotd-328/#comments Thu, 05 Aug 2010 17:16:07
+0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46208 Research in Motion co-CEO
Michael Lazaridis has a bit of advice for Gulf states threatening to ban
BlackBerry services over national security concerns: “If they can’t deal with
the Internet, they should shut it off.” In an interview with The Wall Street
Journal, Lazaridis said complaints that RIM’s BlackBerry network is not
conducive to surveillance reflect a lack of understanding of the Internet.
“Everything on the Internet is encrypted,” Lazaridis said. “This is not a
BlackBerry-only issue. If they can’t deal with the Internet, they should shut
it off.” That said, it would be bad for business if they did, so Lazaridis
says RIM (RIMM) will do what it can to educate the United Arab Emirates, Saudi
Arabia, India and the like about the dangers of the Internet and the need for
encrypted data services like the ones it provides. “This will get resolved…if
there is a chance for rational discussion,” Lazaridis said. “We are going to
continue to work with them to make sure they understand the reality of the
Internet. A lot of these people don’t have Ph.D.’s, and they don’t have a
degree in computer science.” Youch. Can’t imagine that’s going to go over too
well with the other folks participating in that “rational
discussion”–especially those in India’s information technology industry. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100805/qotd-328/feed/ 0 BlackBerry's New Torch Makes a
Leap From Drab http://allthingsd.com/20100804/blackberrys-new-torch-makes-a-
leap-from-drab/ http://allthingsd.com/20100804/blackberrys-new-torch-makes-a-
leap-from-drab/#comments Thu, 05 Aug 2010 02:02:32 +0000
http://ptech.allthingsd.com/?p=1438 Millions of people love the BlackBerry,
relying on it especially for email and text messaging. But this classic
smartphone, while still dominant in the U.S., has been slipping in popularity
as consumers, and even some corporations, eye two newer, simpler and more
versatile rivals: Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android operating system that
runs on a plethora of phones. Both boast much larger ecosystems of third-party
applications than the BlackBerry. A new Nielsen survey shows that only 42% of
BlackBerry owners want their next phone to be a BlackBerry, while 89% of
iPhone owners and 71% of Android owners plan to stick with those platforms.
So, this week, the BlackBerry’s maker, Canadian tech giant Research in Motion,
introduced a new model and a new operating system designed to counter these
trends and better compete with the iPhone and Android. The new BlackBerry is
called the Torch 9800, and it is the first BlackBerry with a slide-out
keyboard, the first to combine both a touch screen and a physical keyboard,
and the first to allow typing on either a physical keyboard or an onscreen
virtual keyboard. It will be available from AT&T; on Aug. 12 for $200 with a
two-year contract. But perhaps the more important introduction is the new
BlackBerry operating system, which will also be available on future models and
as an upgrade for several existing models. Called BlackBerry 6, the new
software aims to juice up the BlackBerry’s tired, utilitarian user interface
and feature set. It is meant to simplify the cluttered home screen, and to add
features such as universal search, multitouch gestures, decent Web browsing,
improved social networking and more built-in apps. The Torch 9800 with
favorite apps, contacts and websites. I’ve been testing the new Torch with
BlackBerry 6, and I view it as a big improvement over earlier, stodgy
BlackBerry models. It might help stem the urge to switch to iPhone and
Android, and even steal some users from those and other platforms, especially
as the company brings out additional models that use the new software. And it
shows that, contrary to some recent speculation, RIM is hardly dead or dying.
In fact, the new phone and software are just the start of its plan to
revitalize the BlackBerry franchise. But there is still one big downside:
third-party apps. While the iPhone boasts 225,000 of these downloadable
programs, and Android claims 70,000, the BlackBerry platform is still stuck at
a measly 9,000. I liked the way the device now has separate screens for
frequently used functions; favorite apps, contacts and Web pages; media
functions; and apps you’ve downloaded. The multitouch gestures, like scrolling
through lists, and pinching and zooming, worked fine. The browser is finally
usable, the app store is now built in, and there is a nice social-networking
app called Social Feeds that combines status updates from Twitter, Facebook
and other networks. Icons seemed larger and more colorful, and it was easy to
add photo icons of favorite contacts and Web sites to the new Favorites
screen. Built-in apps that appear out of the box include Facebook, Twitter,
MySpace, CNN, ESPN, and the Weather Channel. The Torch In addition, the new
BlackBerry allows you to quickly check your latest messages and to control
your network settings by merely tapping on a couple of bars on the home screen
that drop down to expose the relevant information. And the formerly geeky and
complex settings screens and menus have been simplified and made more
graphical and attractive. The music and video players are much more attractive
and useful, and there is even a way to wirelessly sync music from a PC running
iTunes or Windows Media Player over your home network, though it is
complicated and time-consuming to set up and so far (as with wired syncing)
only works on Windows PCs, not Macs. However, this week’s moves are mostly
catch-ups to iPhone and Android, and not a radical move forward for the super-
smartphone category. One reason is that RIM can’t afford to alienate its loyal
base of existing BlackBerry fans. In fact, a RIM software executive, writing
on an official company blog, called the new operating system “fresh, but
familiar” and assured current users that “when you look at it, it still looks
like a BlackBerry Home Screen.” He compared it to a “home renovation.” The
company was careful to keep some of the most familiar BlackBerry features. For
instance, even though you can now navigate with multitouch gestures, the Torch
still has the standard mini-trackpad and the usual menu and escape keys. The
physical keyboard—crucial to most BlackBerry fans—is also very familiar in
layout and function. The popular BlackBerry Messenger application has been
retained. The Torch lags behind its rivals in some respects. For example, it
has a smaller and much lower resolution screen than either the iPhone 4 or
some of the newer Android models, like the Samsung Vibrant or the Motorola
Droid X. Despite that smaller screen, it is also significantly thicker and
heavier than the new iPhone or the Samsung, mainly because of the slide-out
physical keyboard, which the others lack. Unlike on the iPhone and some new
Android phones, there is no front-facing camera or video-calling function
built in. Curve 8500 While the Torch generally is smooth and responsive, I
found it slower overall than the iPhone 4. And, in my tests, its
browser—though based on the same technology as the ones on Android and the
iPhone—proved consistently slower, though much faster and better than on
earlier BlackBerrys. During my testing, the browser also began behaving
strangely, freezing up at some moments and, in other cases, displaying only
the graphics, not the text, on some Web pages. To fix this, I had to remove
and replace the battery. The slide-out physical keyboard looks a bit cramped,
but, after a few days of use, I found it performed in the usual excellent
manner of most BlackBerry keyboards. The onscreen keyboard, on the other hand,
proved markedly inferior to those on the iPhone and Android. The keys are
narrow, and easy to miss. And the keyboard doesn’t morph much to make
specialized functions easier. When you’re entering an email address, it
doesn’t display a prominent, dedicated “@” key like the iPhone does. RIM says
this is because it expects users to rely more on the physical keyboard for
such scenarios. The email function, long the BlackBerry’s strong point, is
largely unchanged. While it is fast and reliable, it lacks some useful touches
the iPhone introduced years ago. For example, there is still no built-in
option for displaying a preview of the text of an email, so you have to guess
whether it is worth opening merely by reading the subject line. And attached
pictures still aren’t displayed automatically in opened emails; you have to
click a link to see them. The built-in Maps function on the Torch is from
AT&T;, and was slower and more frustrating to use than Google Maps on the
Android and the iPhone. RIM says it will have its own BlackBerry Maps program
available for the new OS at launch. Tour 9630 But there are also many strong
points. The five-megapixel camera with flash worked very well in my tests for
still photos, and pretty well for videos. It even has several scene settings,
such as for sports events or parties, and face detection. A redesigned pop-up
menu makes it easy to share photos via email, text message, BlackBerry
Messenger, or various social networks. Notifications of new messages,
including social-networking updates, seems much quicker than on previous
BlackBerrys. Battery life was good in my tests, and the phone lasted through
an average day easily. Phone calls were crisp and clear. And, although the
number of bars seemed about the same on AT&T; as they did on the iPhone 4, and
I could make the bars drop on the Torch by holding it in a certain manner,
none of the limited number of calls I tried dropped. In my tests, the Torch
downloaded data a bit more quickly than the iPhone over AT&T;’s network, but
much more slowly over Wi-Fi. The new OS will be standard on all future
BlackBerry models, and owners of the existing Bold 9700 and 9650, and the
Pearl 3G, will be able to upgrade to it. Overall, the Torch and the BlackBerry
6 operating system are good products that improve the BlackBerry experience
considerably and bring the device closer to its newer rivals. Find Walt
Mossberg’s columns and videos online, free, at the All Things Digital Web
site, walt.allthingsd.com. Email him at mossberg@wsj.com. Corrections &
Amplifications Existing AT&T; customers who buy a new AT&T; Torch smartphone
and who already have a $30 a month unlimited data plan can opt to keep that
plan. This column said Torch buyers would have to commit to a capped data plan
starting at $15 a month. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100804/blackberrys-new-
torch-makes-a-leap-from-drab/feed/ 0 RIM Plays Catch-Up, but Can It Cut the
Mustard? http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-plays-catch-up-but-can-it-cut-the-
mustard/ http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-plays-catch-up-but-can-it-cut-the-
mustard/#comments Tue, 03 Aug 2010 18:45:20 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46072 At a New York event Tuesday
morning, Research in Motion (RIMM) Co-CEO Mike Lazaridis called the launch of
the Blackberry Torch one of the most important in the company’s history. And
it certainly is that. As the smartphone has evolved into the standard for the
broader consumer market, RIM has begun to lose some of its momentum to Apple’s
iPhone and a parade of new handsets running Google’s Android OS. And it’s
losing mindshare even more quickly. A Nielsen survey released yesterday shows
that 57 percent of current BlackBerry users in the United States say their
next handset will NOT be BlackBerry. And, predictably, most Android and iPhone
users say the same thing. So, yes the Blackberry Torch launch is one of the
most important in RIM’s history. But is the device a buzz-worthy breakthrough
or just another BlackBerry? Really, it looks to be the latter, though as Ralph
de la Vega, head of AT&T;’s (T) mobility and consumer divisions, it also looks
to be the best one ever. But it’s clearly not the triple axel revolutionary
leap RIM proclaims, but more a reactionary Lutz that catches it up with the
rest of the market. Universal search, universal in-box, Web-kit browser —
these are all commonplace smartphone features, not transformative ones. They
do address the shortcomings that undermined previous devices and little else.
And in the end, perhaps that’s all that RIM really needs. The company says
“fresh, but familiar” is the goal to which it aspires. The Torch is that and
it will likely be a hit with die-hard Blackberry users. But is it really “ a
quantum leap over anything that’s out there” as RIM co-CEO Jim Balsillie
claims? And more importantly is it the device that Lazaridis says will make
“anyone that looks at it…say ‘I want a BlackBerry’? That’s for the market to
decide, but at first glance it doesn’t look like it. But maybe it doesn’t need
to. As Don Lindsay, RIM’s vice president for user experience said today, “It’s
not about bringing something new to BlackBerry but improving what we do best.”
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-plays-catch-up-but-can-it-cut-the-
mustard/feed/ 0 No BlackBerry 6 for Storm and Storm2?
http://allthingsd.com/20100803/no-blackberry-6-for-storm-and-storm-2/
http://allthingsd.com/20100803/no-blackberry-6-for-storm-and-storm-2/#comments
Tue, 03 Aug 2010 16:34:29 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46066
Research in Motion’s new BlackBerry 6 OS will first ship with the Torch on
August 12. But it will come to the company’s other devices soon enough. While
a firm timetable hasn’t yet been set, RIM said today that BlackBerry 6 will
reach the Pearl 3G and the Bold 9700 and 9650 “in the months ahead.” Two
devices it evidently won’t be reaching: The Storm and Storm2. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100803/no-blackberry-6-for-storm-and-storm-2/feed/ 0
RIM Announces BlackBerry Torch, "The Best BlackBerry Ever"
http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-announces-blackberry-torch-the-best-
blackberry-ever/ http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-announces-blackberry-
torch-the-best-blackberry-ever/#comments Tue, 03 Aug 2010 15:11:46 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=46030 Research in Motion’s long,
lumbering game of catch-up in the smartphone race is over–according to RIM,
anyway. At an event in New York City this morning, the company uncrated its
BlackBerry 6 operating system (see video embed below)–a major overhaul of the
dusty BlackBerry OS–and the BlackBerry Torch, the first device to run it and,
according to AT&T; Mobillity CEO Ralph de la Vega, “The best BlackBerry ever.”
RIM’s (RIMM) first QWERTY slider, the BlackBerry Torch looks a bit like the
Palm Pre and features a 5 megapixel camera, 8GB of internal memory (4GB flash
and 4GB MicroSD) and a 3.2-inch touchscreen display with a resolution
of…480×360! (No, I’m not kidding; apparently RIM’s answer to Apple’s Retina
Display is the Cataract Display.) BlackBerry 6 gives it a decent Webkit
browser (finally) and some other features we’ve come to expect from modern
smartphones: universal search, social networking integration, and the like.
Also on-board, a Wi-Fi Music Sync feature that allows users to access their
entire iTunes or Windows Media Player music libraries from the device.
BlackBerry App World comes pre-installed and supports carrier billing through
AT&T.; Price: $199 with a two-year contract with AT&T; (T), the device’s
exclusive carrier in the States. It hits stores on August 12. Oh, the tagline
for the Torch’s new ad campaign? “Less an evolutionary leap, more like a
triple Axel.“ ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100803/rim-announces-blackberry-
torch-the-best-blackberry-ever/feed/ 0 57 Percent of US BlackBerry Owners
Would Rather Not Be http://allthingsd.com/20100802/48-percent-of-us-
blackberry-owners-would-rather-not-be/
http://allthingsd.com/20100802/48-percent-of-us-blackberry-owners-would-
rather-not-be/#comments Mon, 02 Aug 2010 17:56:39 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=45938 Given the number of Android
smartphones currently available in the United States and the number of
carriers peddling them, is it really all that surprising that they outsold
Apple’s iPhone in the last quarter? Far more surprising is the fact that this
is the first time they’ve done so to date–after all, the iPhone is available
in the States in just two models on a single carrier. So as revelations go,
Nielsen’s announcement this morning that Android now represents 27 percent of
new U.S. smartphone purchases, ahead of the iPhone’s 23 percent, is more of a
“what took so long” than a “Breaking Away”-style victory. More interesting are
the research house’s observations on user loyalty, particularly with regard to
Research in Motion (click image to enlarge). Among current iPhone owners, 89
percent say their next handset will be another iPhone, six percent say it will
be an Android device and two percent claim it will be a BlackBerry. Among
current Android device owners, 71 percent say their next handset will also run
Android, 21 percent say it will be an iPhone, and three percent say it will be
a BlackBerry. Obviously, quite a bit of loyalty in the market for both. But
what about for the BlackBerry, which claims a 35 percent share of the U.S.
smartphone market–greater than iPhone or Android? Not even close. Only 42
percent of current BlackBerry owners are loyal to the device–29 percent say
their next smartphone will be an iPhone; 21 percent say it will be an Android
device; and seven percent say it won’t be either of those three. So more than
half of the BlackBerry’s current U.S. user base plans to dump it for a rival
device first chance it gets. A troubling metric for RIM, but one that may
begin to change this week if the company debuts BlackBerry OS 6 and the
BlackBerry 9800, as expected. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100802/48-percent-
of-us-blackberry-owners-would-rather-not-be/feed/ 0 Repeat After Me: "I Want a
BlackBerry" http://allthingsd.com/20100729/get-ready-to-say-i-want-a-
blackberry/ http://allthingsd.com/20100729/get-ready-to-say-i-want-a-
blackberry/#comments Thu, 29 Jul 2010 10:00:08 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=45714 The 52-week low that Research In
Motion hit earlier this month is quickly receding on rumors of some big
upcoming product announcements. Word on the street is that the company plans
to uncrate the BlackBerry 9800 at an event in New York City next week. The
9800 will be the first RIM (RIMM) device to use the company’s BlackBerry OS 6,
a new operating system that CEO Mike Lazaridis says will make “anyone that
looks at it…say ‘I want a BlackBerry.'” That’s the hope, anyway. With a new
WebKit-based Web browser, an overhauled media player and support for
multitouch, BlackBerry 6 is the OS RIM should have released years ago, one
that should give its devices a bit more appeal in a market increasingly
enamored of super-smartphones. So if the 9800 is announced next week along
with a rumored mid-August ship date, RIM will have taken its first big step in
addressing the competitive issues that are tarnishing its growth prospects.
Said Kaufman Bros. analyst Shaw Wu, “As we said before, we believe the new
user interface with multitouch technology and WebKit-based browser closes the
gap materially against Android and iPhone.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100729/get-ready-to-say-i-want-a-blackberry/feed/ 0
RIM: Time to Call Life Alert? http://allthingsd.com/20100714/rim-time-to-call-
life-alert/ http://allthingsd.com/20100714/rim-time-to-call-life-
alert/#comments Wed, 14 Jul 2010 20:02:11 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=44752 Research in Motion CEO Mike
Lazaridis says that the company’s forthcoming BlackBerry 6 operating system
will make “anyone that looks at it…say ‘I want a BlackBerry.'” For RIM’s
(RIMM) sake, let’s hope so, because the company’s current OS certainly isn’t
doing that now. According to a new survey by ChangeWave Research, consumer
interest in the BlackBerry is declining at a time when demand for smartphones
is on the rise. Just six percent of survey respondents planning to purchase a
smartphone in the next 90 days intend to buy a BlackBerry. That’s fewer than
half the number that were planning to do so during ChangeWave’s last survey,
taken in March. And it is dwarfed by the 52 percent of respondents planning to
buy an iPhone (up from 31 percent) and the 19 percent planning to buy an HTC
handset (up from 12 percent). Grim news, and it only gets worse. Customer
satisfaction with the BlackBerry is on the decline as well. Just 30 percent of
respondents who own the device say they’re satisfied with it. That’s a record
low for RIM after a seventh consecutive quarter of decline, and something of
an embarrassment when 73 percent of iPhone owners rate themselves very
satisfied. Clearly, RIM has fallen. The question now is, can it get back up?
“In recent quarters RIM models appear to have lost their ‘cool factor,’ and
the onus is now squarely on RIM to regain consumers’ confidence in their
products,” ChangeWave says. “To do so they need new, highly compelling
offerings that can compete on an equal footing with the best that Apple and
Android have to offer. Otherwise, RIM’s future growth may increasingly be
limited to the success or failure of its lower cost models on the
international market.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100714/rim-time-to-call-
life-alert/feed/ 0 CEO Jim Balsillie: BlackBerry Ready to Play Quantum
Leapfrog http://allthingsd.com/20100625/balsillie-blackberry-ready-to-play-
quantum-leapfrog/ http://allthingsd.com/20100625/balsillie-blackberry-ready-
to-play-quantum-leapfrog/#comments Fri, 25 Jun 2010 20:00:03 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43625 The long, stumbling game of catch-
up Research in Motion has been playing in the smartphone market is nearing its
end. And when the end is finally reached, RIM will emerge the victor, besting
its Android rivals and Apple’s (AAPL) iPhone. Because the BlackBerry maker
isn’t standing still–anymore. It will soon roll out its new BlackBerry 6
platform and new handsets. And when it does, global smartphone supremacy is
assured…MUAHAHAHA. “Once you see the new platform…you’ll be all very
surprised,” RIM co-CEO Jim Balsillie said during the company’s earnings call
Thursday. “…I think you’ll just be amazed that how it’s a quantum leap over
anything that’s out there….I just wish I could wind the clock forward a few
weeks.” I’ll bet you do. How annoying it must have been to report softer sales
and handset shipments than expected on a day when the newly launched iPhone 4
is selling out to massive crowds. Of course, RIM did sell its 100 millionth
BlackBerry during the quarter. An impressive milestone, but one the company
has already passed. The more pressing question now: How quickly will Research
in Motion (RIMM) sell another 100 million in a market enamored of super-
smartphones like the Droid, iPhone and Evo? ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100625/balsillie-blackberry-ready-to-play-quantum-
leapfrog/feed/ 0 Thumbplay's Mobile Music Service Hits the iPhone
http://allthingsd.com/20100601/thumbplays-mobile-music-service-hits-the-
iphone/ http://allthingsd.com/20100601/thumbplays-mobile-music-service-hits-
the-iphone/#comments Tue, 01 Jun 2010 14:49:35 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=20114 Another paid option for mobile music:
Thumbplay, which offers an all-you-can-eat subscription service that already
works on Research in Motion’s (RIMM) BlackBerry and Google’s (GOOG) Android
handsets, has rolled out a version that works with Apple’s (AAPL) iPhone. Same
terms and conditions apply: You can stream all the music you want to your
phone for $9.95 and buy individual songs for downloading. That $9.95 price tag
seems to be the new going rate for mobile subscription services: Rhapsody
recently priced its offering at that level, and MOG will do the same once its
mobile option rolls out. One relatively important distinction between
Thumbplay’s BlackBerry option and the one it offers for Android and iPhone:
The former offers an offline/caching mode, which means you can stream a
certain number of tunes, store them on your handset, and listen to them when
you’re on an plane, in the subway, etc. Thumbplay doesn’t explain why that
option isn’t available for Android and iPhone, but promises it’s “coming
soon.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100601/thumbplays-mobile-music-service-
hits-the-iphone/feed/ 0 Invasion of the Market Share Snatchers: BlackBerry
Losing Share to Android? http://allthingsd.com/20100512/blackberry-losing-to-
droid-piper/ http://allthingsd.com/20100512/blackberry-losing-to-droid-
piper/#comments Wed, 12 May 2010 15:29:02 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=40372 Research in Motion’s BlackBerry is
the leading smartphone brand in the United States thanks to its vast core
demographic of enterprise power users. But as the smartphone evolves into the
standard for the broader consumer market, RIM (RIMM) may see that lead eroded
by rivals with sexier devices. In a research note to clients today, Piper
Jaffray analyst T. Michael Walkley says his checks this month and last suggest
the BlackBerry is losing momentum at the country’s largest wireless carriers,
mostly to handsets running Google’s (GOOG) Android OS. “While BlackBerry
remains a leading smartphone brand, our checks indicate potential sell-through
share losses at AT&T;, Verizon, and T-Mobile,” Walkley writes. “In fact, we
believe the Bold 9700 continued to lose smartphone share at AT&T; following a
price increase last month to $199.” There’s worse. “In addition, our checks
indicated further share losses to Android products at T-Mobile and Verizon. At
Verizon, our checks indicated slowing RIM sales, as sales managers continue to
push Android products such as the HTC Incredible and Motorola Droid. At
T-Mobile, our checks indicate weaker BlackBerry sales due to strong sales of
Android products such as the HTC MyTouch and the Windows based HTC HD2.” But
RIM’s situation isn’t dire. RIM is one of the five largest mobile phone
manufacturers in the world and it makes only smartphones. Still, these market
trends are worth keeping an eye on, particularly the likely arrival of a new
iPhone at AT&T; (T) this summer and a handful of slick new Android smartphones
at Verizon (VZ). While the new Blackberry Bold 9650 and the Pearl 3G might
fend off those devices in the enterprise market relatively easily, they’re
likely to have a harder time of it in the consumer market. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100512/blackberry-losing-to-droid-piper/feed/ 0 Is
Android Really Outselling Apple? http://allthingsd.com/20100510/is-android-
really-outselling-apple/ http://allthingsd.com/20100510/is-android-really-
outselling-apple/#comments Mon, 10 May 2010 13:00:24 +0000
http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=19234 Here’s a curveball of a data point:
Android is now outselling the iPhone. Really? Really, says NPD. The consumer
research shop says U.S. sales of smartphones using Google’s mobile operating
system climbed past Apple in the first three months of this year. Google
(GOOG) nabbed 28 percent of the market, while Apple (AAPL) claimed 21 percent,
NPD says. Less surprising is that BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIMM)
still leads the market, with 36 percent. Here are the data in chart form:
Android is the green line with the prominent spike: NPD’s numbers come from
self-reported online consumer surveys (corporate sales aren’t included), so
there’s likely some variance between its results and actual sales data. And
indeed, NPD’s numbers look quite different from the most recent numbers from
comScore (SCOR), which showed Google with a 10 percent share in February.*
Still, NPD is usually considered a reasonably accurate estimator of retail
sales, so the report is worth taking seriously. The best argument in support
of NPD’s numbers, meanwhile, is that Google’s handset and carrier partners,
particularly Verizon Wireless (VZ) and Motorola (MOT), have been pushing their
Android phones hard in recent months. And perhaps potential iPhone buyers are
in a wait-and-see mode until June, when Apple is expected to unveil a next-
generation handset. But this explanation requires an awful lot of iPhone
buyers to be awfully savvy about Apple’s product cycle. Anyway, this isn’t
necessarily terrible news for Apple, as the company faces a possible federal
antitrust probe. The NPD number is certainly more humble than the data Steve
Jobs was boasting about last month when he noted that the iPhone had 64
percent of the mobile browser market. *Important distinction between the NPD
and Comscore data: NPD is measuring sales, and Comscore is measuring installed
base. So entirely possible for those two data sets to sync up. More in Digits.
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100510/is-android-really-outselling-apple/feed/ 0
Two New Yawners From RIM: BlackBerry Pearl 3G, Bold 9650
http://allthingsd.com/20100426/two-new-yawners-from-rim-blackberry-
pearl-3g-bold-9650/ http://allthingsd.com/20100426/two-new-yawners-from-rim-
blackberry-pearl-3g-bold-9650/#comments Mon, 26 Apr 2010 12:33:45 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=39228 “If you saw the road map, you’d be
blown away.” — RIM co-CEO Jim Balsillie, April 1, 2010 Research In Motion
(RIMM) kicked off its Wireless Enterprise Symposium this week by uncrating two
new handsets, the Bold 9650 and the Pearl 3G. Incremental upgrades to their
predecessors, neither device is much of a head-turner. The successor to the
BlackBerry Tour 9630, the Bold 9650 features a 480×360 display, 3.2 megapixel
camera, optical trackpad, GPS and 802.11b/g Wi-Fi support. It’s designed to
work with either quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE/UMTS or dual-band CDMA/EV-DO. The
candybar Pearl 3G is similarly unimpressive. It features UMTS/HSDPA and Wi-Fi
(b/g/n) support along with GPS, a 3.2 megapixel camera, an optical trackpad, a
microSD/SDHD memory card slot. Excitingly, it is “the smallest BlackBerry
smartphone yet.” Well, there’s that. If these devices are the first milestones
on the revolutionary product road map to which co-CEO Jim Balsillie referred
during RIM’s last earnings call, the company needs a better cartographer.
Neither of these handsets is likely to give RIM much advantage in a market
increasingly enamored of super-smartphones like the iPhone, DROID and Nexus
One. As Charter Equity Research analyst Ed Snyder observed in a note earlier
this month, “Weak offerings in [touchscreen phones] and 3G leave [RIM] heavily
exposed to a slew of new smartphones now hitting the market. While it will
certainly maintain its lead in email-based smartphones, we see little chance
it can sustain its market share, pricing or margins long-term.” Certainly not
with new handsets like these; though, to be fair, the company says it still
has a few more things to unveil this week. “We will have more announcements,
so I am not going to comment on further announcements,” Balsillie told
Reuters. “[co-CEO Mike] Lazaridis will be doing a keynote … So I would tune
into his keynote and see what he has to say.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100426/two-new-yawners-from-rim-blackberry-
pearl-3g-bold-9650/feed/ 0 RIM's BlackBerry Jam
http://allthingsd.com/20100401/rims-blackberry-jam/
http://allthingsd.com/20100401/rims-blackberry-jam/#comments Thu, 01 Apr 2010
18:21:12 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=37964 Research in
Motion’s disappointing fourth-quarter results have inspired a somber mood
today among analysts who follow the company. Seems news of the RIM’s (RIMM)
lower phone shipments has compounded fears that it is losing ground to Apple’s
(AAPL) iPhone and the conga line of new Android handsets that have debuted
recently. Simona Jankowski of Goldman Sachs (GS) took a particularly dim view
of Research in Motion’s performance, suggesting that there may be grave
reasons for the decline in phone shipments RIM suffered during the quarter
(the company shipped 10.5 million devices; analysts were looking for 11
million). “Evidence [suggests] that the structural competitive issues are
starting to weigh on its growth prospects,” Jankowski wrote. “We estimate that
RIM’s U.S. business declined 15% [quarter-over-quarter]–the second q-o-q
decline in a row, and the first [year-over-year] decline.” Jankowski questions
the official Research in Motion explanation. “While RIM attributed that to an
inventory reduction at a North America customer, we think the magnitude of the
decline points more to lower demand at Verizon as a result of its endorsement
of Android; our checks showed a dramatic reduction in the number of RIM
[phones] at Verizon last quarter and better sales for Motorola’s DROID than
for RIM at many Verizon stores.” The implication here is that RIM’s BlackBerry
devices are losing their appeal as the market becomes more enamored of super-
smartphones. While RIM may hold the lead in email-based smartphones, it’s not
worth much as the market’s focus shifts to smartphones with vast application
ecosystems. As Charter Equity Research analyst Ed Snyder observed in a note to
clients this morning, “Weak offerings in [touchscreen phones] and 3G leave
[RIM] heavily exposed to a slew of new smartphones now hitting the market.
While it will certainly maintain its lead in email-based smartphones, we see
little chance it can sustain its market share, pricing or margins long-term.”
In other words, RIM needs a new phone–a competitive phone. Desperately.
Thankfully, company co-CEO Jim Balsillie says one is on the way. “I can’t talk
about what’s not announced,” he said on an earnings call with analysts
Wednesday. “If you saw the road map, you’d be blown away.” I certainly hope
so. Because without a worthy rival to the iPhone, Droid, Nexus One, et al,
things will only grow worse, particularly if that CDMA iPhone rumored to be on
its way to Verizon materializes. Said Citigroup (C) analyst Jim Suva: “We
simply don’t want to be owners of RIM shares when Verizon gets the iPhone.”
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100401/rims-blackberry-jam/feed/ 0 An App With a
Knack for Contacts http://allthingsd.com/20100316/xobni-review/
http://allthingsd.com/20100316/xobni-review/#comments Tue, 16 Mar 2010
22:08:08 +0000 http://solution.allthingsd.com/?p=1117 In the same way
cellphone address books helped people stop memorizing phone numbers, the magic
of auto-complete helped them stop memorizing email addresses. This feature,
which is built into most email programs, lets users type as few as one or two
letters before seeing and selecting from a list of addresses that may or may
not be saved in the email program’s address book. Too bad auto-complete on
your mobile device doesn’t work the same way. On mobile devices, the suggested
names in the “To” line only include those of contacts that are saved in a
device’s digital address book. This leaves people stuck mid-thumb, trying to
remember an email address, or worse, being forced to wait until they return to
their desks to send a message. This week, I tested an app that generates
contact information for every person a user has ever communicated with in
Microsoft Outlook—or if Outlook isn’t a factor, just with the device. I tested
Xobni Mobile for BlackBerry, available as of March 16 at
http://xobni.com/mobile. Xobni Mobile costs $10 as a stand-alone app from
Xobni Corp. or $7 if it’s bought with Xobni One, the company’s new cloud-based
storage service that costs $4 monthly. One year of Xobni Mobile with the Xobni
One service costs $40. I tested Xobni Mobile on my BlackBerry Curve 8900 and
used the Xobni One service to connect with Outlook, which was running on my PC
with Xobni’s desktop program installed. This app makes a big difference for
people like me, who rarely sync their devices with their PCs, don’t primarily
correspond with people in their corporate Exchange networks and don’t like
taking the time to manually add names, email addresses and phone numbers into
the Contacts section of the BlackBerry. This app also uses Xobni’s analytics
feature to rank people, thus returning results sorted according to how much a
user emails with someone. More Meshing Xobni Mobile could stand to do a better
job of meshing with the BlackBerry’s operating system, especially considering
that the company worked with Research in Motion (RIMM) to build a deeply
integrated app. I’ll admit that it comes close—a finger swipe up on the email-
compose screen opens the Xobni app. But as my high-school economics teacher
always said, close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades. The process
required to open the app, type the contact’s name, select the name from within
the Xobni app and return to the compose screen can feel too long and a bit
clumsy. Another downside is that the Xobni Mobile app doesn’t yet integrate
with text messaging or dialing numbers, so rather than pull up a phone number
from within the device’s texting or dialing interface, users must open the app
and select a contact before calling or texting. A Xobni representative said
the company is working with RIM on deeper integration. Xobni (“inbox” spelled
backwards) started a couple years ago with its namesake product, a
downloadable add-on for Outlook that analyzed and indexed all emails and ran
in a side panel within the email program. Since its introduction, Xobni for
Outlook has added enhancements, including the built-in ability to display an
email contact’s Twitter and Facebook profiles. And some of these spill over
into the mobile app. Souping Up a Device The Xobni desktop program currently
works only on PCs (not Macs) that have Outlook installed, and runs only on
high-end BlackBerrys, including the Curve 8900, Tour, Storm, Bold and Bold 2.
The Xobni Mobile app connected to Xobni for Outlook using Xobni One
considerably soups up the experience, adding an average of 10-times more
contacts than the BlackBerry alone. The top 6,000 contacts (according to the
analysis of who you email the most) will be stored locally on the device, as
well as each contact’s photo, which gets pulled in from Outlook, LinkedIn,
Facebook or a Xobni account. Additional services connected to Xobni include
Hoovers, Twitter and Salesforce. People who don’t use Outlook and/or don’t
want to pay for the Xobni One service can still use the app by itself with
Web-based email programs running on the BlackBerry. Finding Mom I found myself
using Xobni on my BlackBerry a lot, despite its extra steps and slightly
cumbersome interface. For instance, it gave me three different emails for my
mom, rather than the one outdated email of hers that I long ago manually
stored in my BlackBerry Contacts and hadn’t updated since. I also liked
Xobni’s way of pulling photos for many contacts onto my device. I didn’t see a
noticeable change in my BlackBerry’s battery life while using the Xobni app,
though its battery will be taxed when it grabs large bunches of contacts and
photos from the server. By default, this only happens when the BlackBerry is
charging. The Xobni One service demonstrates the company’s move into the
increasingly crowded realm of backup software programs. When the BlackBerry is
charging, this service updates the PC’s Outlook program with any changes on
your BlackBerry and sends new contact data added to Outlook to the BlackBerry.
If I lost my BlackBerry tomorrow or changed jobs next week, I’d still be able
to retrieve several years’ worth of Outlook contacts and their profiles on a
new BlackBerry using my Xobni One log-in credentials. (These same credentials,
an email and password, are required when installing the app on the
BlackBerry.) Xobni hasn’t announced any definite plans for integration with
other mobile devices, but a representative said that the company is
considering making iPhone and Android apps. If you use a PC, Microsoft Outlook
and a BlackBerry, Xobni offers a smart solution for automatically organizing
all of your contacts into one place and allows for your contacts to be stored
somewhere other than just in Outlook or just on your mobile device. If it was
a little easier to access on the BlackBerry, I’d like it even more. Email
mossbergsolution@wsj.com Write to Katherine Boehret at
mossbergsolution@wsj.com ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100316/xobni-review/feed/
0 Can You Read a Book on Your BlackBerry? Time to Find Out, Via Amazon's
Kindle. http://allthingsd.com/20100218/can-you-read-a-book-on-your-blackberry-
time-to-find-out-via-amazons-kindle/ http://allthingsd.com/20100218/can-you-
read-a-book-on-your-blackberry-time-to-find-out-via-amazons-kindle/#comments
Thu, 18 Feb 2010 11:56:53 +0000 http://mediamemo.allthingsd.com/?p=16410
Amazon’s Kindle strategy has two prongs: Tether its e-book store closely to
its own devices and simultaneously, make sure buyers can also read their
purchases on other platforms, if they really want to. This will be important
when Apple’s iPad launches, since Amazon (AMZN) will have an app that works on
that device. It’s already relevant for those who use Apple (AAPL)
iPhones/iPods and PCs that run Microsoft’s (MSFT) Windows. And as of this
morning, for some BlackBerry users. You can download Amazon’s free BlackBerry
app, which runs on seven newish models from Research in Motion (RIMM), here or
by entering “amazon.com/kindlebb” into your BlackBerry browser. I’ve given the
app a cursory run-through, and it did indeed give me access to books I’d
previously purchased via Amazon. Just like other Kindle apps, it remembered
that I’d only gotten through the first six chapters of Elmore Leonard’s “Road
Dogs.” And unlike the first version of the Kindle App for iPhone/iPod (which
came out nearly a year ago), you don’t need to use the device’s native browser
to shop at Amazon’s store. There’s an in-app version of the store that allowed
me to quickly download a sample of Ozzy Osbourne’s “I Am Ozzy.” (Sort of
interesting, though suspiciously cogent.) I’ve been a big proponent of the
notion that single-use devices like the Kindle will end up losing out to all-
in gadgets like the iPhone and iPod because convenience trumps everything
else. But Kindle on the BlackBerry, a device that really isn’t optimized for
reading more than a few words at a time, will be an interesting test of that
thesis. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100218/can-you-read-a-book-on-your-
blackberry-time-to-find-out-via-amazons-kindle/feed/ 0