AllThingsD » Web video http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000
en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Web Video Startup Ooyala Raises $43 Million
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/web-video-startup-ooyala-raises-43-million/
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/web-video-startup-ooyala-
raises-43-million/#comments Wed, 11 Dec 2013 13:00:32 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=378015 iStockphoto | dny59 We saw a smattering of ad
tech IPOs this year, and there are a bunch of companies that are supposedly
lined up for next year. Here’s one you likely won’t see going public in 2014 —
at least not in the beginning of the year: Ooyala, the Web video startup. The
Mountain View-based company, which had already raised $79 million, just added
$43 million in new funding, all from Telstra, the Australian telco. The move
indicates that Ooyala will stay private a while longer, says CEO Jay Fulcher:
“I wanted to be able to go public when it’s the right time to, instead of
having to.” If you’re not in the Web video business, you’re unlikely to know
who Ooyala is, because it’s not a consumer brand like YouTube or Hulu. It
handles a variety of back-end video services, including distribution and ad
serving, but its primary business is selling analytics about Web video usage,
so video makers can figure out what kind of videos they should be serving up,
and when they should be serving them. Customers include ESPN, Bloomberg and
Comedy Central. Telstra, which is both a significant Ooyala customer and a
reseller of its service in Australia, had invested in Ooyala’s last round.
Fulcher says a “small” amount of the most recent round represents secondary
sales from the company’s founders and early employees. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/web-video-startup-ooyala-
raises-43-million/feed/ 0 Cable Guys Try Fighting Cord-Cutting With … A Clumsy
Web Video http://allthingsd.com/20131210/cable-guys-try-fighting-cord-cutting-
with-a-clumsy-web-video/ http://allthingsd.com/20131210/cable-guys-try-
fighting-cord-cutting-with-a-clumsy-web-video/#comments Tue, 10 Dec 2013
16:29:19 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377845 The TV Industrial Complex is
really hard to budge. It’s not going anywhere anytime soon. On the other hand,
even the TV Industrial Complex is now aware that lots of people would like to
move it. Hence this ham-handed campaign from an industry trade group trying to
convince people — presumably young cord-cutters and cord-nevers — that their
life is incomplete without a pay TV subscription (thanks to Nick Summers for
flagging). You can get a sense of it here: And if you want to see the entire
thing, which has a Choose-Your-Own-Adventure-Meets-Wes-Anderson-Meets-Tim-and-
Eric vibe, you can head to HoleSaga.com. But only if you have a robust PC, a
good broadband connection and a bunch of time. This is a slooooow site. Good
thing all those cord-cutters and cord-nevers have tons of patience for that
kind of thing. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131210/cable-guys-try-fighting-
cord-cutting-with-a-clumsy-web-video/feed/ 0 Chernin Group Confirms
Crunchyroll Investment http://allthingsd.com/20131202/chernin-group-confirms-
crunchyroll-investment/ http://allthingsd.com/20131202/chernin-group-confirms-
crunchyroll-investment/#comments Tue, 03 Dec 2013 05:10:29 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=376182 Peter Chernin’s investment company has
announced its investment in Crunchyroll, the online anime subscription
service. The Chernin Group now owns a majority stake in the company, via a
deal that values the startup at something close to $100 million. AllThingsD
reported on the deal in October. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131202/chernin-
group-confirms-crunchyroll-investment/feed/ 0 The Story of This Viral Video
Will Blow Your Mind! (Please Tell Your Friends!)
http://allthingsd.com/20131121/the-story-of-this-viral-video-will-blow-your-
mind-please-tell-your-friends/ http://allthingsd.com/20131121/the-story-of-
this-viral-video-will-blow-your-mind-please-tell-your-friends/#comments Thu,
21 Nov 2013 11:30:37 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=374112 Got a song you want
to turn into a smash hit on the Web? Can’t get Apple to use it in one of their
ads? Can’t get an iconic TV show to use it in the last scene of its final
episode? Then there’s always this strategy: Have a huge hit song in the ’80s.
Get that song played in sports stadiums during time-outs two decades later.
Wait for some kid to dance to the song in an exuberant, can’t-believe-
it’s-not-staged-and-it-could-very-well-be-staged-but-who-cares way. Have a
video of that kid dancing to your song go viral. Wait another a few years for
that same video to go viral again, lifted specifically by a Facebook-savvy
tactician. Presto! Easy, right? Ask Bon Jovi. The band’s iconic “Livin’ on a
Prayer” has just re-entered the Billboard Hot 100 chart at No. 25, 26 years
after it was a No. 1 hit. Its re-emergence is due entirely to streams of this
YouTube clip, which just got a second life as a pop culture sharing-
timewaster, four years after it first became a viral hit: This is normally the
part where I tell you about the provenance of the clip, but there’s
frustratingly little information available to a lazy Googler. All I can tell
you is that many people on the Web believe the dancer’s name is Jeremy Fry.
And that while his lip sync first became a sensation in 2009, there are other
clips of him, doing the same outsized moves at Celtics games, in what appears
to be the same shirt, from 2008. I can tell you that while the clip seems to
have been periodically discovered and shared throughout the last four years,
its rocket ride started a few weeks ago. That’s when something called
UTrend.TV re-posted it, with a Facebook-friendly headline and subhead: “What
Happens When You’ve Got One Chance. This man is awesome! Somebody buy the man
whatever he is drinking!” I don’t know who works at or funds UTrend.TV, or why
they decided to repost a clip uploaded by a YouTube user who has only posted
two videos in the last three years. But just like the guys at Upworthy,
ViralNova and Buzzfeed, whoever works at UTrend.TV has figured out how to
repackage old stuff they find on the Web in a way that makes it irresistible
to Facebook passers-along. People have shared UTrend’s post on Facebook 1.7
million times so far, and have streamed the YouTube clip more than 12 million
times in the last month. I’m hazy about the way UTrend turns this into money.
But on the other hand, it costs very little to run a site that re-posts
popular YouTube clips. Presumably there’s a strategy here. And now, if you’ll
excuse me, I need to go find some Allen Funt clips you probably haven’t seen
before: “A five-year-old girl picks up the phone. What happens next will amaze
you.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131121/the-story-of-this-viral-video-will-
blow-your-mind-please-tell-your-friends/feed/ 0 The Ratings Are in for Alpha
House, Amazon's First Made-for-the-Web TV Show
http://allthingsd.com/20131119/the-ratings-are-in-for-alpha-house-amazons-
first-made-for-the-web-tv-show/ http://allthingsd.com/20131119/the-ratings-
are-in-for-alpha-house-amazons-first-made-for-the-web-tv-show/#comments Tue,
19 Nov 2013 14:37:34 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=373575 Last Friday Amazon
started streaming the first three episodes of “Alpha House,” its first home-
grown TV show. Wouldn’t it be great to know how many people watched it? Sure
it would! But you are much more likely to take a ride on the Hyperloop than
you are to get any meaningful statistic out of Amazon. So instead, the company
has announced that over the past weekend, “Alpha House” was its “number one
most-watched show.” What exactly does that mean? An Amazon rep semi-clarifies
via email: “It means more Amazon customers watched Alpha House than any other
series on Prime Instant Video over the weekend.” Of course, if this wasn’t
true, it might have qualified as news, since Amazon made sure that Alpha House
was heavily promoted to Prime Instant Video users. I saw ads for the show
every time I logged in to watch “The Good Wife” over the weekend. And I
definitely would have watched it, except that I saw the first three episodes
last week at a schmancy event Amazon hosted at New York’s Metropolitan Museum
of Art. The show, a Washington satire written by Doonesbury creator Garry
Trudeau, is pretty good, by the way. And it seems to pick up steam as it goes
along, so I’m interested to see future episodes, which Amazon will start
doling out once a week, instead of doing a Netflix-style dump. And here we
should note that Netflix, which often does provide some level of detail about
its business, hasn’t offered any specific viewing data about its own
Washington show, “House of Cards,” or any of its other made-for-the-Web
streamers. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131119/the-ratings-are-in-for-alpha-
house-amazons-first-made-for-the-web-tv-show/feed/ 0 Shhh! Amazon Starts a
Semi-Secret Digital Focus Group for Its Homegrown TV Shows and Movies.
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/shhh-amazon-starts-a-semi-secret-digital-focus-
group-for-its-homegrown-tv-shows-and-movies/
http://allthingsd.com/20131106/shhh-amazon-starts-a-semi-secret-digital-focus-
group-for-its-homegrown-tv-shows-and-movies/#comments Wed, 06 Nov 2013
14:17:32 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=370896 Amazon, which is starting to
make its own TV shows, has already made a splash by letting anyone on the Web
watch its test programs and weigh in on them. Now it’s starting a more
selective effort, where it invites some of its “best customers” into a semi-
secret focus group and asks for their opinions on its programming even earlier
in the process. Here’s the way Amazon describes the program, which it is
calling “Amazon Preview”: Amazon Preview is an exclusive opportunity for
entertainment fans to help shape Movies and TV Series. Once you’ve accepted
our invitation, we will email you opportunities to view and provide feedback
on entertainment projects — before they’re available to anyone else. We’ll
share concepts, storyboards, test movies and even television pilots with
Amazon Preview members and use the feedback we collect from them to make
entertainment projects better. You can learn a little bit about Amazon Preview
by clicking on this link, and checking out these FAQs. But you can’t learn
much more about the program unless Amazon asks you to participate. And even
then, you may not make the cut. Someone we know recently got an invite to
Amazon Preview, but when they clicked through, they found this filtering
screen, listing a long line of professions that they couldn’t work in if they
wanted to join the program. So, no luck for them — or for people like me, or
basically anyone remotely related to the media business: Via email, an Amazon
rep confirmed that Amazon Preview exists, but wouldn’t say much more. A Google
search indicates that there aren’t many people participating yet — or if there
are, they’re not saying much about it. It does appear as though Amazon is
using Vision Critical, a Vancouver-based online research firm, to power the
program. Obviously, if you’re in the program, or know someone who is, we’d
love to know more. Drop me a line: peter@allthingsd.com; I’m happy to keep you
anonymous. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131106/shhh-amazon-starts-a-semi-
secret-digital-focus-group-for-its-homegrown-tv-shows-and-movies/feed/ 0
Today's Giant Media Event, Brought to You -- And Owned -- By Google
http://allthingsd.com/20131103/todays-giant-media-event-brought-to-you-and-
owned-by-google/ http://allthingsd.com/20131103/todays-giant-media-event-
brought-to-you-and-owned-by-google/#comments Sun, 03 Nov 2013 18:13:52 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=369997 Remember when Google was a technology company
that didn’t want to be in the media business? Actually, that was always a
stretch, since Google has been selling ads since 2000, and soon after that
became one of the world’s most powerful media companies, no matter how it
liked to describe itself. Now Google has stopped pretending. And it is doing a
lot more than selling ads around other people’s content — it’s investing in
content itself. See, for example: Zagat, Frommer’s, Machinima, Vevo, dozens of
YouTube channels, and 300, Lyor Cohen’s new record label. And if you don’t
want to click on any of those links, head to YouTube tonight at 6 pm ET, where
the world’s largest video site is putting on its own awards show, designed to
occupy some of the same pop-cultural turf now claimed by spectacles like the
Grammys and the VMAs. As The Verge reminds us, YouTube has tried to do
something a little like this before. But YouTube Live was mostly a celebration
of things that only existed because of YouTube, like Tay Zonday. And it ended
up being a pretty modest celebration. Tonight’s YouTube Music Awards are
supposed to be big-big-big, featuring people that lots of people have heard
of, like Lady Gaga and Eminem. Director Spike Jonze, who made it big in music
videos back when music videos were still something you watched on MTV, is
coordinating the whole thing. And YouTube promises that the whole thing will
run a tight 90 minutes, which is a big deal for a company that plays it by ear
quite a bit. What’s most striking about today’s event is that the concept
isn’t really that striking at all: Music videos and YouTube are now
synonymous, and have been for a long time. YouTube is effectively the world’s
most popular digital music service, which is why the company’s plans to offer
a paid service only seem slightly weird at this point. So it makes perfect
sense to gather some of the talent that benefits from YouTube’s exposure to
help create a spectacle that will generate more exposure for them, and for
YouTube. After all, that’s the kind of thing that media companies do. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131103/todays-giant-media-event-brought-to-you-and-
owned-by-google/feed/ 0 No Amazon TV Box for Christmas
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/no-amazon-tv-box-for-christmas/
http://allthingsd.com/20131029/no-amazon-tv-box-for-christmas/#comments Tue,
29 Oct 2013 18:52:15 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=369017 Asa Mathat /
AllThingsD.com Amazon is going to sell a lot of stuff in the next couple of
months.* But it is very unlikely to be selling its own Web video box. Jeff
Bezos and company have been prepping a set-top box meant to compete with Roku
and Apple’s Apple TV device, and had been aiming to start selling the device
this fall. Now industry sources say Amazon has told them that it is looking to
launch in 2014, most likely in the spring. The Verge first reported last week
that the box was delayed. I’ve heard different theories about the reason for
the delay. One version is that Amazon isn’t happy with the device’s
performance; another is that management is underwhelmed with the product, and
feels that it’s too similar to the boxes already on the market. (At one point,
Amazon tried to get into the market by buying Roku.) A fun left-field theory:
The company, which has been talking to Intel about supporting the chipmaker’s
Web TV project, is more impressed with the stuff Intel would like to bring to
market. For now, we’ll have to speculate about the reason. Amazon’s PR team,
which has yet to acknowledge the company’s plan to produce a TV box, didn’t
respond to requests for comment. * Amazon-watchers are familiar with the
company’s annual post-Christmas press release, full of eye-popping and
ridiculous statistics: “Amazon customers purchased enough vinyl copies of The
Beatles albums that if laid flat would extend 20 times the length of Abbey
Road in London.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131029/no-amazon-tv-box-for-
christmas/feed/ 0 Netflix Flirts With a New Idea: “Big” Movies at Your House,
the Same Day They’re in Theaters http://allthingsd.com/20131028/netflix-
flirts-with-a-new-idea-big-movies-at-your-house-the-same-day-theyre-in-
theaters/ http://allthingsd.com/20131028/netflix-flirts-with-a-new-idea-big-
movies-at-your-house-the-same-day-theyre-in-theaters/#comments Mon, 28 Oct
2013 20:38:31 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=368760 Netflix made a splash this
year by creating its own TV shows and delivering them over the Web. Now it’s
toying with the same idea for movies. This summer, the company announced that
it in addition to TV shows like “Orange Is the New Black,” it would start
spending money on modest movies — documentaries and stand-up comedy specials —
which would debut on the service. Now Netflix is floating the idea that it
will foot the bill for a “big” movie, which would appear in theaters and on
Netflix at the same time. During the company’s earnings call last week,
content boss Ted Sarandos said the company was interested in breaking into
movies, and that investors should “keep [their] mind wide open to what those
films would be and what they would look like.” This weekend, Sarandos got more
explicit. In a speech hosted by Film Independent, the nonprofit behind the
indie film Spirit Awards, Sarandos said Netflix could start delivering new
movies to its subscribers by doing the same thing it has done with its
original TV shows, and becoming a first-run distributor. “What we’re trying to
do for TV, the model should extend pretty nicely to movies. Meaning, why not
premiere movies on Netflix, the same day they’re opening in theaters? And not
little movies — there’s a lot of ways, and lot of people to do that [already].
Why not big movies? Why not follow the consumers’ desire to watch things when
they want?” Good logic. And hard to imagine how that will work. But presumably
that’s Sarandos’s point — Netflix wants to show that it can do it, at least
once, and put pressure on the rest of Hollywood to change. And there’s some
nice symbolism here, too: Netflix started out delivering movies via DVD, which
it could do without Hollywood’s permission. It eventually moved into a digital
TV show service, at least in part because it couldn’t get the studios to let
it distribute their movies over the Web. Wouldn’t it be cool if Netflix could
start to end run the system and deliver movies that way, too? As Sarandos
notes, it’s already possible to see some art house movies at home, via
distributors like Apple or Time Warner Cable, at the same time they’re in
theaters. (Sometimes even before they’re in theaters). But almost all major
Hollywood movies follow a rigid “windowing” system, where they show up in
theaters first, then on DVD and “on demand” services, then on pay TV (and
sometimes Netflix), etc. Films studios themselves have expressed interest in
tweaking those windows, so movies could migrate more quickly from theaters to
other venues, but theater owners, who play a big role in movie marketing, have
been fiercely opposed to any changes. (See: “Tower Heist” or “Alice in
Wonderland.”) And I can’t see Sarandos convincing any studio with a
traditional blockbuster that needs conventional theaters to change course
anytime soon. If you want to see “Thor: The Dark World” on November 8, you’re
still going to have to visit the box office. So perhaps Sarandos has a
different definition of a “big” movie in mind. Or maybe some other clever end
run around the system. Feel free to watch his speech below (don’t be scared
off the by 44-minute counter on the YouTube clip; his prepared speech only
goes 22 minutes, and if you need to go fast you can speed up to the 19-minute
mark) and reach your own conclusions. For now, Netflix reps aren’t offering
any additional comment. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131028/netflix-flirts-
with-a-new-idea-big-movies-at-your-house-the-same-day-theyre-in-theaters/feed/
0 How to (Almost) Guarantee Your Web Video Ad Gets Watched
http://allthingsd.com/20131024/how-to-almost-guarantee-your-web-video-ad-gets-
watched/ http://allthingsd.com/20131024/how-to-almost-guarantee-your-web-
video-ad-gets-watched/#comments Thu, 24 Oct 2013 12:38:13 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=368025 Hey, advertisers: Want to get a Web video
watcher to see your commercial? Don’t put it at the beginning of a video clip.
Wait until they’re already watching something, and then run your ad. That
advice comes from a new study sponsored by Akamai, which argues that viewers
are most likely to complete “mid-roll” ads. In fact, Akamai argues, they’re
almost always willing to sit through those ads, presumably because they’ve
already invested time in watching whatever they’re watching: But maybe the
reason people are more likely to watch mid-roll ads is because they’re
generally in longer clips, so the viewer has more reason to stick around.
Reasonable assumption, right? But Ramesh K. Sitaraman, the UMass-Amherst
computer-science professor who conducted the study using Akamai’s data, said
he’s gone ahead and tried to control for different types of content, different
lengths of ads and different kinds of viewers. Even then, he said, viewers are
18 percent more likely to finish a mid-roll ad than a pre-roll. One other
interesting data point from the Akamai study, which has a lot of them: When it
comes to watching ads, it really doesn’t matter what time of day people are
watching Web videos, or if they’re watching them on weekdays or on weekends —
they’re just as likely to make it through or bail out: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131024/how-to-almost-guarantee-your-web-video-ad-gets-
watched/feed/ 0 What's the Point of Spending $400 Million if You Can't Brag
About It? http://allthingsd.com/20131017/whats-the-point-of-
spending-400-million-if-you-cant-brag-about-it/
http://allthingsd.com/20131017/whats-the-point-of-spending-400-million-if-you-
cant-brag-about-it/#comments Thu, 17 Oct 2013 12:50:16 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=366240 In August, Tim Armstrong made his biggest bet
ever as CEO of AOL, by buying Adap.tv, a Web video ad company. Today,
Armstrong gets his first bit of payoff from his $405 million investment: He
gets to say that AOL now serves more Web video ads than Google, and more than
anyone else in the U.S. That’s because comScore, the Web traffic counter, has
now combined Adap.tv’s ad-serving total with AOL’s. Which means, by comScore’s
count, AOL/Adap.tv served 3.7 billion video ads last month, versus Google’s
3.2 billion. That is: Two things combined are bigger than something else. The
AOL/Adap.tv numbers do show a bit of growth beyond the basic 1+1 arithmetic.
In August, AOL served 525 million video ads, and Adap.tv served 2.45 billion.
Last month, those numbers bumped up to 597 million and 3.125 million,
respectively. But, while passing Google — which happens to run the world’s
biggest video site — is a fun bragging right, it’s not a permanent one. As Ad
Age notes, video ad network BrightRoll topped Google’s numbers three times in
the last year. Today, it’s back in the No. 3 slot. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131017/whats-the-point-of-spending-400-million-if-you-
cant-brag-about-it/feed/ 0 A New Terrible YouTube Video You Shouldn't Watch
but Probably Will http://allthingsd.com/20131015/a-new-terrible-youtube-video-
you-shouldnt-watch-but-probably-will/ http://allthingsd.com/20131015/a-new-
terrible-youtube-video-you-shouldnt-watch-but-probably-will/#comments Tue, 15
Oct 2013 15:44:22 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=365635 Remember when we were
all so upset by Miley Cyrus and her terrible performance at the VMAs that we
all had to write about it, and watch it, over and over and over? That was in
September! And now it’s October, so we need a new focus for our faux-outrage.
(Click here! Please!) This will occupy us for a day, perhaps: The latest
terrible song and lousy video from Patrice Wilson, better known as the “guy
who brought you Rebecca Black and “Friday.” This one is, well, no need to keep
typing before you watch it, or at least a couple seconds of it: Okay. So. I
don’t know what Wilson has been doing for the last couple years since
“Friday,” though his Wikipedia page insists that he has been keeping busy. I
do assume that he knows what he’s doing here, and that the song’s multiple
level of cringe-factors are intentional, and are all designed to get us to
click and play and natter on. But, if that’s the case, why not crank one of
these out every six months or so? I can’t imagine that he requires a muse.
Anyway, Wilson gets some upside, because all of those clicks eventually
translate into a bit of ad revenue, via YouTube. And perhaps there are still
other parents out there who will see the video and think “Yes, this is
something I would like my child to do, too.”* So that’s more money for him.
And, obviously, everyone who is writing about this gets a little bump, too —
even those of us who profess to be ashamed to be writing about it. Presumably,
the same thing will happen when it gets on to TV news, which should be any
minute. Oh, and if the whole thing turns out to be another Jimmy Kimmel fake?
Then we can all write about that, too, without much hint of embarrassment. *
Poor Alison Gold, by the way (assuming that she is a real person) has less
than 200 Twitter followers as of Tuesday morning. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131015/a-new-terrible-youtube-video-you-shouldnt-
watch-but-probably-will/feed/ 0 All the News That Fits in a 15-Second Segment:
NowThisNews Tries Instagram, and the Results Are Pretty Interesting
http://allthingsd.com/20131011/all-the-news-that-fits-in-a-15-second-segment-
nowthisnews-tries-instagram-and-the-results-are-pretty-interesting/
http://allthingsd.com/20131011/all-the-news-that-fits-in-a-15-second-segment-
nowthisnews-tries-instagram-and-the-results-are-pretty-interesting/#comments
Fri, 11 Oct 2013 16:38:46 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=364863 Vine is a good
place to watch super-short videos. Instagram is a good place to see cool
pictures and slightly longer videos. Are either of them good places to watch
the news? NowThisNews is trying to find out. The mobile/social/video news
startup, backed by the same people that brought you the Huffington Post and
BuzzFeed, has been experimenting with micro-length video news segments,
pushing out six-second snippets on Twitter’s Vine, and 15-second spots on
Facebook’s Instagram. Here’s a NowThisNews Instagram report: And here’s one on
Vine: People seem to like them, said Ed O’Keefe, NowThisNews’ editor in chief.
NowThisNews’ Vine account, which started cranking out clips last spring, has
about 100,000 followers/subscribers. Its Instagram account, which was
basically dormant until two months ago, now has 52,000 followers. Beyond crude
measures like “Likes” and reposts, neither Twitter nor Facebook provide any
kind of analytics to their video users, so there’s no way to really gauge
engagement. And, no matter what, the video services make up a small fraction
of the 20 million views that NowThisNews said it generates a month. But my
hunch is that NowThisNews is on to something here. Not all of this stuff
works. A multipart “exclusive” Instagram interview with Senate hopeful Cory
Booker doesn’t yield much. And NowThisNews’ Vines often just shrug and bail
with a “what do you think?” That gets old fast. But Instagram in particular
seems like a fruitful format for NowThisNews. You can definitely tell a story
in 15 seconds — they do this on TV and radio all the time — and the startup is
taking care to make sure the look and feel looks and feels like “authentic”
Instagram stuff. Here’s a slick look at Chinese artist/activist Ai Weiwei’s
work: And here’s a concise summary of a shutdown story, which conveys all the
basic info a casual news-watcher would want: Until recently, NowThisNews had
been pushing up to 12 Instagram posts a day to its followers. Now, said
O’Keefe, the startup is going to start breaking those posts up into different
verticals, so people who want “real” news won’t get Miley Cyrus updates, as
well (or vice versa). This also seems smart. And, by the way, 15 seconds seems
to be the perfect length of time for infotainment like the Jimmy Kimmel/Kanye
West beef/makeup: It’s entirely possible that all of this ends up filed in the
novelty drawer. And O’Keefe and company, who have dedicated staff working on
both Instagram and Vine, are playing with other formats too, including a
Snapchat feed. But, again, it seems like Instagram has real potential here.
NowThisNews wants people to watch most of its stuff on a dedicated app, but
getting someone to download, and then use, a news app is a long shot. But if
they can scatter a few stories in your feed, alongside pictures of your pals’
breakfast? That feels plausible. This does assume that Instagram users are
willing to accept video in their feeds in general. I tend to avoid my
Instagram pals’ videos, because videos are hard to make, and 15 seconds of
even mediocre video is 14 seconds too long. But if people who are good at
video start showing up on the service routinely, then my habits might change.
This is what O’Keefe is betting on. “Instagram is in that transitional moment,
where it moves from being person-to-person, friend-to-friend, to being about
content discovery,” he said. “Users are looking to content creators, brands,
all sorts of people they don’t know, and we want to be one of them.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131011/all-the-news-that-fits-in-a-15-second-segment-
nowthisnews-tries-instagram-and-the-results-are-pretty-interesting/feed/ 0 The
People Who Bring You "Mad Men" and "Breaking Bad" Bet on YouTube Channel About
… Dance? http://allthingsd.com/20131010/the-people-who-bring-you-mad-men-and-
breaking-bad-bet-on-youtube-channel-about-dance/
http://allthingsd.com/20131010/the-people-who-bring-you-mad-men-and-breaking-
bad-bet-on-youtube-channel-about-dance/#comments Thu, 10 Oct 2013 20:15:45
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=364676 Does your business distribute video on
YouTube? Did your business just raise a round of funding? Then there is a good
chance that: Machinima founder Allen DeBevoise is one of your backers, and You
say you’re going to use the money to help build a business outside of YouTube.
So here’s Amanda Taylor, who has checked both of those boxes, and closed a $4
million funding round for DanceOn, a YouTube network that features what you
think it features. In addition to DeBevoise, who has put money into a series
of YouTube networks ranging from StyleHaul to AwesomenessTV, Taylor has some
interesting backers on this one. Plus Capital and AMC Networks (yes, that AMC
Networks)* led the round, which included MediaLink CEO Michael Kassan, veteran
digital exec Jon Miller and Guy Oseary, Madonna’s manager. Madonna was
originally billed as one of DanceOn’s co-founders, and her name helped add
glamour to YouTube’s “funded channels” pitch in 2011, when Google’s website
handed out advances to various video producers, including DanceOn. DanceOn,
which claims more than a billion views to date, was one of the minority of the
original YouTube-funded channels that got a new round of investment from the
site this year. But, like lots of other people who are trying to make money on
the world’s largest website, Taylor is now trying to make money via outlets
that aren’t the world’s largest website. * If you want to, you can include
DanceOn’s funding as part of a trend we’ve seen where Big Media players bet
real money on YouTube, like Time Warner’s bet on Maker Studios. But this is a
much smaller bet than others we’ve noted. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131010/the-people-who-bring-you-mad-men-and-breaking-
bad-bet-on-youtube-channel-about-dance/feed/ 0 Web Video Players Alloy Digital
and Break Media Get Bigger by Getting Together
http://allthingsd.com/20131008/web-video-players-alloy-digital-and-break-
media-get-bigger-by-getting-together/ http://allthingsd.com/20131008/web-
video-players-alloy-digital-and-break-media-get-bigger-by-getting-
together/#comments Tue, 08 Oct 2013 11:46:14 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=363766 People have been predicting a Web video
consolidation wave for years. Here’s another sign that it may actually be
happening: Break Media, which specializes in clips aimed at young dudes, is
merging with Alloy Digital, which specializes in clips aimed at even younger
dudes. The new company will be called Defy Media. Alloy and Break described
their deal to the New York Times as a 50-50 joint venture, though Alloy chief
executive Matt Diamond will get that title in the new company, and Break’s
Keith Richman will be president. The move follows Maker Studios’ “acquhire” of
Blip last month, and Alloy’s acquisition of DBG last spring. All of those
deals have the same basic premise: To compete in an industry dominated by
YouTube, you need scale, whether you’re trying to build a business inside of
YouTube or outside of YouTube. Lots of Web video programmers are trying to
figure out how to generate money without depending on the world’s biggest
website, but both Alloy and Break have been doing that for quite awhile. Break
has built a network of its own sites, anchored by Break.com; Alloy has been
taking stars that are big on YouTube, notably the Smosh duo, and building
their own sites for them so they can make money without sharing it with
YouTube. Earlier this year, Alloy raised $30 million from ABS Capital. Film
studio Lionsgate Entertainment owns a large minority stake in Break. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131008/web-video-players-alloy-digital-and-break-
media-get-bigger-by-getting-together/feed/ 0 Former Hulu Boss Jason Kilar
Drops Some Hints About His New Startup http://allthingsd.com/20131003/former-
hulu-boss-jason-kilar-drops-some-hints-about-his-new-startup/
http://allthingsd.com/20131003/former-hulu-boss-jason-kilar-drops-some-hints-
about-his-new-startup/#comments Thu, 03 Oct 2013 10:30:15 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=362611 While things at his old company are still in
flux, former Hulu CEO Jason Kilar is starting up a new company. He won’t talk
publicly about what he’s doing, but now he has formally announced that he’s
doing … something by unveiling a new teaser/”help wanted” website. Oh! And he
tweeted, too: This tweet will be very relevant to a special kind of innovator.
(We’re hiring) http://t.co/g8Y59biYF7 — Jason Kilar (@jasonkilar) October 2,
2013 Feel free to check out the slick site for “The Fremont Project,” but be
warned that there isn’t a lot of detail available there. All Kilar and Rich
Tom, his former chief technology officer at Hulu, are willing to say is that
The Fremont Project is a “code name for a new consumer-focused venture,” and
that they’d like to hire some awesome designers and developers. Oh! And, like
Jeff Bezos, Kilar’s former boss, they also want to “delight our customers.”
Like TechCrunch, we’ve also heard that Kilar’s new venture is connected to
“the living room” in some way. But that could mean a lot of things, and
there’s no hint here about which one of those things that means. If you had
time on your hands last night, you might have also poked around Twitter and
Google and found a few more things, which don’t really mean much at all, but
are sort of interesting, if you’re inclined that way. What’s that? You didn’t
do that? Okay. Here’s what you might have seen: One early Fremont Project hire
appears to be Zachary Pinter, whose social media profiles say he put in two
years at Hulu before heading out to Kilar’s new company in August. Grand Trunk
Labs, the limited liability company identified at the bottom of Kilar’s new
site as the venture’s real owner, appears to have digs in San Francisco’s
South of Market neighborhood, where all tech startups are now required to
office. The Grand Trunk Railway had a really interesting history. Thomas
Edison used to work there when he was a teenager. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131003/former-hulu-boss-jason-kilar-drops-some-hints-
about-his-new-startup/feed/ 0 How to Make Lots of Web Video, Really Fast: Get
Rid of (Most of) the Humans http://allthingsd.com/20131002/how-to-make-lots-
of-web-video-really-fast-get-rid-of-most-of-the-humans/
http://allthingsd.com/20131002/how-to-make-lots-of-web-video-really-fast-get-
rid-of-most-of-the-humans/#comments Wed, 02 Oct 2013 16:34:34 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=362383 Image copyright Rainer PlendlHeads up,
professional video makers: Robots may be coming for your jobs. We’ve already
seen that software can replace human beings who used to write and edit news
stories. Now, Wochit, an Israeli-born startup, is trying to do the same thing
with video news. And it’s quite possible that you’ve seen some of its work
already: Wochit’s stuff is running on big portals like Yahoo, and on many
smaller sites, via distributors like Grab Media. Wochit can take prewritten
stories from outlets like Reuters and turn them into videos by assembling an
appropriate mix of images, clips and narration. Human beings touch the video
twice during production — once when a “moderator” quickly scans the clip to
make sure the basic elements are in the right place, and once when someone
reads the voice-over copy. Wochit said the entire process takes an average of
10 minutes, and that lets the company make hundreds of clips a day. The
results have been getting better throughout the year. Now they’re quite
passable. Here’s how Wochit handled a story this morning about President Obama
and the Too Big to Fail banks: No one’s going to mistake this stuff for a “60
Minutes” report. But, depending on the use case, it may certainly be good
enough. Wochit is aimed at Web video, where lots of people are looking for ad-
friendly clips that users might also click on. But in the not-so-distant
future, I can see this stuff working on conventional TV, too. Eventually,
Wochit CEO Keith McAllister said, the company wants to set up a self-service
system where anyone could feed it text and get a usable video. If a brand
like, um, AllThingsD wanted to add our own narration (or whatever), we could
do that, too. This is likely worrisome for some human beings who currently get
paid to edit and produce news videos. But humans have been grappling with the
pros and cons of automation for a long time. And if you want to put a sunnier
face on it, feel free to paraphrase my take on it when I wrote about the
possibility that Narrative Science’s story-writing robots might take my job:
“The trick for content makers like myself is to find work that only content
makers like myself can do — work where human qualities like experience,
judgment and creativity get rewarded. And if we can’t do that, we ought to be
doing something else, anyway.” Here’s a quick interview I conducted (but
didn’t edit) with McAllister last week: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131002/how-to-make-lots-of-web-video-really-fast-get-
rid-of-most-of-the-humans/feed/ 0 PC or TV? No Need to Keep Asking.
http://allthingsd.com/20130925/pc-or-tv-no-need-to-keep-asking/
http://allthingsd.com/20130925/pc-or-tv-no-need-to-keep-asking/#comments Wed,
25 Sep 2013 17:14:02 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=360796 Another entry from
the “convergence isn’t coming, it’s here” file: Americans have stopped viewing
their televisions and their computers as equally valuable devices. Now they
rely on the PC over the TV. Here are two more slides from Magid Advisors’
recent survey on TV and Web usage (we flagged a cord-cutting survey result
yesterday). The first shows that youngish folks overwhelmingly rely on their
computers instead of plasmas for entertainment — and that, even when you
factor in the rest of the American population, the PC comes close to
displacing the TV: And, if they’re relying on the PC for entertainment, then
it stands to reason that they value that more than anything else, right?
Right! Note that this chart’s results include everyone from 8-year-olds to
AARP members: No need to spell out the implications for everyone from Apple to
Netflix to Google to Comcast, right? Right. (Image courtesy of
Shutterstock/Stokkete) ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130925/pc-or-tv-no-need-to-
keep-asking/feed/ 0 Why Web TV Skeptic Mark Cuban Thinks Google Can Make the
NFL Work on the Web http://allthingsd.com/20130821/why-web-tv-skeptic-mark-
cuban-thinks-google-can-make-the-nfl-work-on-the-web/
http://allthingsd.com/20130821/why-web-tv-skeptic-mark-cuban-thinks-google-
can-make-the-nfl-work-on-the-web/#comments Thu, 22 Aug 2013 02:09:26 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=352829 Ezra Shaw/Getty Images Sport If Google ends up
getting the rights to stream NFL games over the Web, could the Web handle it?
That is: Is America’s Internet infrastructure capable of letting millions of
people watch the same football games, at the same time, while delivering a TV-
quality picture? We’ve seen hints that the Web is now up to the challenge, but
for now we don’t really have an answer. We won’t know until someone tries.
Still, I figured it would be worth asking some folks who know a bit about Web
video and TV. So I started with Mark Cuban. Cuban, as you may recall, got into
Web streaming way back in Web 1.0, and became a billionaire after he sold his
Broadcast.com to Yahoo. Fast-forward to today, and Cuban is pouring a lot of
resources into conventional TV, via his HDNet/AXS TV venture. He has also been
a frequent skeptic about the limits of YouTube specifically and Internet video
in general. Surprise! Cuban thinks the Web, and Google, are capable of
delivering NFL games to your TV. Less surprising is that Cuban has lots of
other things to say. Short version: Cuban says that Google would be smart to
grab the NFL’s Sunday Ticket rights from DirecTV. Here’s the long version,
compiled via an email exchange today: I think Google could do 20 million
simultaneous users now at a highly compressed HD. In the next 18 months, 30
million. But that is going to eat up a lot of resources, and it’s going to be
difficult to do much quality of service. It’s one thing to originate it and
distribute it. It’s another to make sure that every peered Internet provider
will get it to the home at a quality Google wants it delivered. Then there is
the “last room” problem. It’s one thing to be perfect getting it to the home.
It’s another to expect that everyone’s Wi-Fi works correctly. Then there are
the nuances like gamblers, and fantasy sports enthusiasts who can’t have more
than a 10-second delay. I don’t think you can match TV for that right now.
I’ve always been skeptical of scaling live events, but I’m softening. Not
because the technology has improved so dramatically — it hasn’t. What has
changed is people’s expectation of picture quality. I think there may be
enough people who will accept buffering and lesser quality. There will be
screaming, but the next five years of increases in bandwidth will change that.
As far as NFL rights and what Google might do, I think they could do what I
suggested to the NBA: Break out the broadcast rights by device type (less
likely could be by transport network). Let traditional TV networks have any
delivery on a traditional TV (just like Hulu can block TV browsers, the
reverse is true as well), for less money than they are paying now, while
Google buys the rights for delivery to mobile for a significant amount. The
NFL ends up with more money. I’m not suggesting that if you buy the full TV
package from a traditional provider, you wont have access to their TV anywhere
or mobile offerings. Rather, those consumers who need the package because they
are mobile and not in their homes can buy a package designed for them. This
obviously is not specific to Sunday Ticket — it’s for the bigger picture. But
all that aside, the Sunday Ticket is a great starting and testing point for
Google — the NBA League Pass would be as well — simply because the number of
out of market simultaneous viewers falls far below what Google can handle at
HD quality. They can do Sunday Ticket. But they have to anticipate the
fallout, and negative brand impact, from fans who really, really want the best
quality picture on their big screen TVs. While Google can handle the technical
side of delivery, they’ll have the QOS issues I mentioned above. So DirecTV
will blow away the picture quality and continuity of picture and service that
Google can offer at this point. And every football fan will thank them if they
keep the rights. One more thing that came to mind as to why Google really
needs this, and why DirecTV needs to do an OTT offering: The holy grail here
is not disrupting the pay tv industry, as some may think. The holy grail is
the ability to have a large OTT subscriber base, to act as a platform to
compete with Netflix and Hulu. Hulu wasn’t in demand because of their
programming. It was because of the millions of subscribers they have paying by
the month. Aero is not interesting as a play because they are impacting over
the air broadcast network retrans fees — it’s because it has the chance to
build a paying subscriber base. What can you do with a paying subscriber base?
You can use it as a platform to grow a pay TV-like business. If Google has
Sunday Ticket and charges X, they then can add Youtube Premium Channels to it
to create more value for subscribers and to significantly increase the
perceived value of that content. They can sign deals with some linear networks
to add value. Bloomberg TV is always available. And as we saw with Viacom, for
the right price they will put their content anywhere. Screw their PayTV
partners! They can go out and sign deals to compete with Netflix. How happy do
you think Google is that Netflix controls the OTT subscription business ? They
can acquire companies like my Magnolia Pictures to originate and license
content for them. Don’t be surprised if they buy a movie chain. Why not?
Movies are digital, too. If you truly want to offer every digital
entertainment experience on every size screen … ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130821/why-web-tv-skeptic-mark-cuban-thinks-google-
can-make-the-nfl-work-on-the-web/feed/ 0 Why Apple TV Is a Cord-Cutter's
Gateway Drug http://allthingsd.com/20130814/why-apple-tv-is-a-cord-cutters-
gateway-drug/ http://allthingsd.com/20130814/why-apple-tv-is-a-cord-cutters-
gateway-drug/#comments Wed, 14 Aug 2013 10:00:37 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=350531 From the “not surprising, still interesting”
file: People who link their TV to the Web to the Internet say they’re more
likely to stop paying for TV. This comes from a TDG Research survey, and the
top line is pretty straightforward: Broadband users with “connected TVs” —
that is, anything from a “smart TV” to a TV with an Apple TV or Roku, or even
a TV connected to a laptop with a cable — say they are twice as likely to cut
the cord as broadband users who don’t connect their TV to the Internet. The
big caveat, of course, is that here we are talking about people who say
they’re going to cut the cord. And while lots of people talk about cutting the
cord, there aren’t nearly as many doing it. Yet even skeptics are now
convinced that cord-cutting, of some sort, for some reason, is real. And it
stands to reason that people who have figured out how easy it is to get video
from the Web to their TV would be more inclined to swap out cable for Netflix,
YouTube and Hulu, etc. Just as important for Comcast, Time Warner Cable, et
al, to consider: Those connected-TV users tend to be more valuable subscribers
— the kind the cable guys say they’re most focused on keeping. TDG says they
spend an average of $91 a month for pay TV versus $84 for non-connected
subscribers. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130814/why-apple-tv-is-a-cord-
cutters-gateway-drug/feed/ 0 Twitter Doesn't Know Why This Ryan Gosling Video
Went Viral http://allthingsd.com/20130812/twitter-doesnt-know-why-this-ryan-
gosling-video-went-viral/ http://allthingsd.com/20130812/twitter-doesnt-know-
why-this-ryan-gosling-video-went-viral/#comments Mon, 12 Aug 2013 21:00:41
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=350408 Why did this Vine of Ryan Gosling not
eating cereal go viral? Dunno. Maybe the collective unconscious has something
to do with it. Or maybe the growing revolt against carbohydrates. Also: Ryan
Gosling. Twitter attempts to answer the question on its blog today, and comes
up with the same range of unsatisfying answers. Basically, different stuff
goes viral for different reasons. If you could predict it in advance, you’d
run BuzzFeed — and then the world. But! Twitter researchers in the U.K. are
able to tell you how the Vine went viral, which makes for a cool visual
representation. The guide, per Twitter’s blog: “The blue nodes represent
Tweets; the bigger they are, the larger the potential reach of that Tweet. The
yellow dots represent retweets.” Got that? What’s that? You’d like to see more
viral videos and their Twitter paths? Okay, here’s a bonus set. Astronaut
Chris Hadfield’s rendition of David Bowie’s “Space Oddity,” which has racked
up more than 17 million views since May: And Twitter’s map of its success: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130812/twitter-doesnt-know-why-this-ryan-gosling-
video-went-viral/feed/ 0 "Breaking Bad" Is Big on Twitter, Facebook -- And TV,
Too http://allthingsd.com/20130812/breaking-bad-is-big-on-twitter-facebook-
and-tv-too/ http://allthingsd.com/20130812/breaking-bad-is-big-on-twitter-
facebook-and-tv-too/#comments Mon, 12 Aug 2013 19:09:36 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=350336 It wasn’t just your imagination: A lot of
people were tweeting and Facebooking about “Breaking Bad” yesterday. Just as
important, at least for the people behind the show: A lot of people watched
it, too. At least by the standards of cable TV: AMC says 5.9 million people
watched last night’s show, which kicks off the last season of the excellent
cancer-ridden-science-teacher-becomes-meth-kingpin series. That’s up double
from the first episode of last summer’s season. The leap in online
conversation about “Breaking Bad” was even bigger. “Social TV” chatter tracker
Trendrr counted 1.18 million “interactions” about the show last night on
Twitter, Facebook and other services. That’s way, way up from the 268,000
“Likes,” comments, etc., that Trendrr saw last year.* So: What does that tell
us, if anything, about the relationship between all that chatter and last
night’s ratings? Probably not that much. While Nielsen now says it has
evidence that Twitter chatter can boost ratings for some shows, sometimes,
it’s probably just as likely that last night’s ratings reflect other factors.
Like weeks of publicity, as well as the series’ performance on Netflix, where
the previous episodes are popular binge fare. And while lots of people had
lots to say about the show last night, in my feed there didn’t seem to be that
much conversation during the show itself. Maybe that’s just the peculiarity of
my feed, but my hunch is that “Breaking Bad” is a great show to talk about
after the fact (and good luck avoiding spoilers the next day). But when
“Breaking Bad” is on, I want to watch “Breaking Bad,” and I really don’t care
what any of you have to say for that hour. Nothing personal. Have an A-1 Day!
* Note that Nielsen’s SocialGuide counted 760,000 Tweets from 400,000 users
for the same show. Given that Facebook has a much larger audience of TV
chatterers than Twitter does, it’s hard to reconcile Trendrr’s numbers with
Nielsen/SocialGuide’s, but that’s the nature of the social TV beast. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130812/breaking-bad-is-big-on-twitter-facebook-and-tv-
too/feed/ 0 AOL Makes the Biggest Buy of the Tim Armstrong Era: $405 Million
for Adap.TV http://allthingsd.com/20130807/aol-makes-the-biggest-buy-of-the-
tim-armstrong-era-405-million-for-adap-tv/ http://allthingsd.com/20130807/aol-
makes-the-biggest-buy-of-the-tim-armstrong-era-405-million-for-adap-
tv/#comments Wed, 07 Aug 2013 11:05:06 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=349451
Tim Armstrong hasn’t bought anything for a couple years. Now he has made his
biggest purchase since taking over AOL in 2009: AOL is buying Web video
company Adap.TV for $405 million in cash and stock. That eclipses the $315
million AOL paid for the Huffington Post in 2011, and it’s a very different
kind of purchase: Instead of producing content, Adap.TV uses software to match
video ad buyers and sellers. Video has been a big focus for AOL in the last
few years, spurred by its acquisition of video syndicator 5Min in 2010. Last
year, Armstrong said the company was on pace to do $100 million in video
revenue. This deal also syncs up with Armstrong’s push to emphasize
“programmatic” ad sales, where buyers use technology to buy up big chunks of
inventory; Armstrong is trying to position AOL as an alternative to Google’s
own “stack” of ad technology that revolves around its DoubleClick platform.
AOL said it will pay $322 million cash for Adap.TV, which is based in Silicon
Valley but has Israeli roots; the remainder will come from AOL shares. At the
end of Q2, AOL had $483 million in cash on hand. Adap.TV reportedly raised $49
million over the last seven years; investors include Bessemer Venture
Partners, Gemini Israel Funds, Redpoint Ventures and Spark Capital. People
familiar with the transaction say that AOL and Adap.TV had on-and-off talks
about a sale; Calcalist, the Israeli business newspaper, reported the
possibility of a deal in July. In addition to other acquisition offers,
Adap.TV had also been considering a public offering. But video ad company
Tremor had a disappointing IPO in June. YuMe, another video ad tech play, is
going public today, and investors don’t seem excited about that one, either.
Here’s the SEC filing with deal details. And here’s how AOL describes the
Adap.TV deal, which it announced along with its Q2 earnings: “Adap.tv Brings
to AOL: The only complete global programmatic video stack for publishers and
advertisers across all screens; A unified yield management platform for
advertisers and publishers for planning, targeting, ad-serving and
measurement; One of the fastest growing platforms on the internet, with global
revenue growth in excess of 100% per year in each of the last three years;
Wide adoption by the largest global advertisers and publishers, including 83
out of the Ad Age 100 and 70 of the comScore 100; A talented team which has
driven innovation in the automation of global video advertising.” And later
on: “On August 5, 2013, AOL entered an agreement to acquire Adap.tv for shares
of AOL common stock with an aggregate value of approximately $83 million and
estimated cash consideration of approximately $322 million, subject to
adjustment for working capital and reduction for indebtedness and transaction
expenses of Adap.tv that remain unpaid as of closing. Adap.tv is a leading and
global unified programmatic video platform powering video advertising for
brand advertisers, agencies, publishers and ad networks. Adap.tv’s platform
allows buyers and sellers to make decisions together on a unified technology
platform, leveraging comprehensive data intelligence, across all screens. The
combination of AOL and Adap.tv is expected to create the only global company
with a full end-to-end solution and video stack for publishers and
advertisers.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130807/aol-makes-the-biggest-buy-of-
the-tim-armstrong-era-405-million-for-adap-tv/feed/ 0 The NFL Gets a Better
Grip on Digital With a New Mobile App http://allthingsd.com/20130805/the-nfl-
gets-a-better-grip-on-digital-with-a-new-mobile-app/
http://allthingsd.com/20130805/the-nfl-gets-a-better-grip-on-digital-with-a-
new-mobile-app/#comments Mon, 05 Aug 2013 10:00:19 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=348872 You should definitely watch NFL games on a big
high-def TV this fall. But if you can’t get in front of one, you will want to
use the NFL’s new mobile app, out today for iOS, Android Windows and
BlackBerry. NFL Mobile does the work that was previously spread out between
two apps — an NFL-built “cross carrier” app that provided scores, highlight
clips and other goodies; and a Verizon-made app that gave the telco’s
subscribers the chance to watch live games. Why are we writing about this?
Because the backstory is interesting here: By consolidating the two apps, the
NFL is also taking more control over its digital experience. Now, if you watch
a live NFL game on your phone, you’ll be dealing directly with the league
instead of going through Verizon, even though Verizon retains control of NFL
mobile rights. And that move is happening as Brian Rolapp, who used to oversee
digital for NFL Media as part of his chief operating officer job, ascends to
the CEO title. So keep an eye on the league for more interesting digital
developments down the line. Of course, because this is about TV and sports and
digital and mobile, there is all kinds of fine print involved here. Those of
you who care about digital sports rights, and/or really do intend to watch
“Monday Night Football” on your iPhone, can read on: NFL Mobile is free, and
so are features like video clips, news and scores. If you’re a Verizon mobile
customer, you can also watch full games on your phone, for a $5 monthly fee.
That will also get you access to the NFL Network and the NFL RedZone
scoreapalooza smorgasbord. But even if you pay, you can only watch a minority
of NFL games: The Sunday night game that NBC airs, the Monday night game that
ESPN airs and the Thursday night games that the NFL Network airs. Everything
else — the Sunday afternoon games that make up the bulk of the season —
belongs to CBS and Fox, and those guys have exclusives for mobile this season.
NFL Mobile will also work on tablets, but in that case, it’s a different set
of rights: Certain pay TV subscribers, like Time Warner Cable customers, will
get “authenticated” access to NFL RedZone and the NFL Network (including the
Thursday night games) for free. But no NBC or ESPN games. Got all of that?
Cool. Except that all of these rights get reshuffled next year. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130805/the-nfl-gets-a-better-grip-on-digital-with-a-
new-mobile-app/feed/ 0 Netflix Tries Breaking Up Your Family, and Thinks
You'll Like It http://allthingsd.com/20130801/netflix-tries-breaking-up-your-
family-and-thinks-youll-like-it/ http://allthingsd.com/20130801/netflix-tries-
breaking-up-your-family-and-thinks-youll-like-it/#comments Thu, 01 Aug 2013
12:00:45 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=348073 You watch shows on Netflix. But
so do your kids. Which means that Netflix’s vaunted recommendation engine,
which watches what you watch and then makes suggestions, has a problem: Does
it tell you to watch stuff like “Jake and the Never Land Pirates”? Or does it
tell your kids to watch Taylor Schilling and her pals get up to hijinks in a
women’s prison? Reed Hastings’s company has been promising to tackle this one
for a while, and today they are getting around to it, via personalized
“profiles.” The idea is a simple one: Up to five Netflix users per account can
set up individual logs of their viewing habits, and Netflix will recommend
stuff accordingly. And if you’re the kind of person who wants to share your
viewing habits with your Facebook friends, you can apply the profiles to that
feature, so your pals will know you’re actually watching “Expendables 2,” and
not “Emily’s First 100 Days of School.” If you’re a close observer of Netflix,
you will have already read about Netflix’s initial efforts at this earlier
this year. If you want a very sincere explainer video, here’s one featuring
Netflix engineer Eddie Wu (warning: may autoplay for some reason). One thing
you should know that’s not in the video: Netflix is rolling out the feature to
most of the big platforms that support the service, like Blu-ray players, Xbox
360 and PS3 game consoles, Apple iOS devices and PCs. But Android users will
have wait a bit, Wu says.* This is a relatively small tweak to the service,
but it still took Netflix about nine months to create a solution and test it
out before they were willing to deploy it widely. And if it works, it should
be a nice tool to increase retention, at least in theory: Better
recommendations = more viewing = happier customers. P.S.: “Jake” is reasonably
watchable. *If you’re the kind of person who likes talking about the relative
merits of iOS and Android when it comes to developers, this one is interesting
to mull. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130801/netflix-tries-breaking-up-your-
family-and-thinks-youll-like-it/feed/ 0