Media The Twitterhack Is Cloud Computing’s Wake-Up Call: Time for Security
That Works Published on July 15, 2009 by Peter Kafka One downside of being the
world’s most talked-about start-up: You become an irresistible target for
hackers. Now Twitter, which has suffered multiple security breaches in the
past, has been punctured again. Someone has gotten into the personal Web
services accounts of co-founder Evan Williams, his wife and at least one other
Twitter employee, and used that access to make off with a pile of confidential
company documents. He’s now distributing them on the Web, and TechCrunch
promises to publish many of them. The media ethics colloquy is well underway
and will go on for a while (Boomtown’s Kara Swisher is holding her session,
appropriately enough, via Twitter). Beyond that, I’m pretty sure Twitter isÂ
going to be okay when this dies down. Based on Williams’s description of the
attack (see the bottom of this post), as well as both TechCrunch’s and the
hacker’s descriptions of what got pilfered, this looks roughly akin to having
your underwear drawer rifled: Embarrassing, but no one’s really going to be
surprised about what’s in there. The hack certainly will be worrisome for
people who are using, or thinking about using, any kind of “cloud computing,”
whereby work data/documents are stored on servers accessed via the Web. Google
(GOOG) in particular is going to get some scrutiny, both because it’s Google
and because it appears that a lot of this stuff was stolen after the hacker
used Google’s “password recovery” system to root around. UPDATE: Twitter is
now going out of its way to say that the attack isn’t Google’s fault, but
Twitter’s fault for using passwords that are easy to guess. Albert Wenger, a
partner at Twitter investor Union Square Ventures, says in a post that his
shop is currently considering moving its systems to Gmail and Google Docs, but
notes the big problem: “The threat of access by a third party increases
exponentially with the move to the cloud, because the machines that now
contain the documents and the links to those documents (as sent by email) are
accessible to the Internet at large.” But cloud computing isn’t going away, so
someone’s going to need to figure out how to make security better, yet still
practical. There’s a reason no one follows the standard advice about having a
different, impossible-to-remember password for every account you have. Wenger
takes a stab at it in post–he suggests something tethered to a mobile phone.
But whoever figures it out is going to have a lot of fans. Williams’s
description of the hack, via TechCrunch: Yes, we did suffer an attack a few
weeks ago and are familiar with this list of stuff. This is unrelated to the
hack of twitter where someone gained access to userâs accounts. This had
nothing to do with the security of twitter.com, and there were no user
accounts compromised here. Some notes: – He did not actually gain access to my
@ev Twitter account (or any Twitter accounts) nor any administrative functions
of the site. – There is also no evidence that he gained access to my email.
There was one administrative employee whoâs email was compromised, as was my
wifeâs Gmail account, which is where he got access to some of my credit
cards and other information. – He also successfully targeted a couple other
employees personal accounts (Amazon, AT&T;, Paypalâ¦) In general, most of the
sensitive information was personal rather than company-related. Obviously,
this was highly distressing to myself, my wife, and other Twitter employees
who were attacked. It was a good lesson for us that we are being targeted
because we work for Twitter. We have taken extra steps to increase our
security, but we know we can never be entirely comfortable with what we share
via email. [Image credit: Wikimedia Commons] Return to: The Twitterhack Is
Cloud Computing’s Wake-Up Call: Time for Security That Works URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20090715/the-twitterhack-is-cloud-computings-wakeup-
call-time-for-security-that-works/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal |
© 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.