Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us Adaptive
Biotechnologies and Collaborators to Present Seven Studies Demonstrating the
Use of Immunosequencing to Identify Prognostic Biomarkers and Potential
Biomarkers of Response at the 2016 American Society of Clinical Oncology
Annual Meeting 06/04/2016 CHICAGO, IL., June 4, 2016 – Adaptive
Biotechnologies, the leader in combining next generation sequencing (NGS) and
expert bioinformatics to profile T- and B-cell receptors of the adaptive
immune system, and its collaborators will present seven studies during the
2016 American Society of Clinical Oncology® (ASCO®) meeting in Chicago from
June 3-7, 2016 demonstrating how the use of the immunoSEQ® Assay to
characterize the repertoire of T-cells in tumor tissue and in peripheral blood
identified prognostic biomarkers and potential biomarkers of response and
toxicity in multiple tumor types. Supporting the emerging prognostic potential
of immunosequencing, a study by Odunsi, et al. at Roswell Park Cancer
Institute will be presented showing the dramatic correlation between immune
repertoire metrics, such as T-cell clonality and diversity, and clinical
outcome in ovarian cancer. Data highlights using immunosequencing to generate
potential biomarkers of response include a study by Funt, et al. from Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, which utilized the immunoSEQ Assay to quantify
tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) which identified a predictive marker of
response to anti-PD-L1 in urothelial cancer. In another study by Zhang, et al.
at MD Anderson Cancer Center, the immunoSEQ Assay was used to characterize and
compare T-cell receptor beta (TCRB) repertoires in TILs and demonstrates the
degree to which TIL heterogeneity is both varied in NSCLC tumors and related
to mutational burden. “Understanding the role of the immune system in
combating cancer is rapidly becoming a necessary component of treatment,
requiring a new class of biomarkers,” says Dr. Harlan Robins, Chief Scientific
Officer and Co-founder of Adaptive Biotechnologies. “Both internally and in
collaboration, Adaptive actively uses its patented immunosequencing technology
to standardize the definition of the immune response to cancer and cancer
immunotherapies and to develop biomarkers based on the resulting metrics which
have the potential to radically improve patient care.” Representatives from
Adaptive Biotechnologies will be exhibiting at ASCO booth #2056 to answer
questions about its immunosequencing technology. Oral Presentation Highlights:
Abstract No. 3005: Correlation of peripheral and intratumoral T-cell receptor
(TCR) clonality with clinical outcomes in patients with metastatic urothelial
cancer (mUC) treated with atezolizumab Presenter: Samual Funt, MD, Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer center Oral Abstract Session: Saturday, June 4,
2:39-2:51p.m. Location: Hall B1 Poster Presentation Highlights: Abstract No.
8539 / Poster No. 167: Intra-tumor heterogeneity of T cell receptor repertoire
in lung cancers and its association with tumor genomic profile Presenter:
Zhang, et al., MD Anderson Cancer Center Poster Session: Saturday, June 4,
8:00-11:30 a.m. Location: Hall A Abstract No. 3082 / Poster No. 404: Anti-
tumor activity of PEGylated human IL-10 (AM0010) in patients with pancreatic
or colorectal cancer Presenter: Papadopoulous, et al., START Center for Cancer
Care Poster Session: Sunday, June 5, 8:00-11:30 a.m. Location: Hall A Abstract
No. 3018 / Poster No. 340: Clinical activity and safety of pegylated human
IL-10 (AM0010) in combination with anti-PD1 Presenter: Naing, et al., MD
Anderson Cancer Center Poster Session: Sunday, June 5, 8:00-11:30 a.m.
Location: Hall A Abstract No. 3029 / Poster No. 351: Association between T
cell repertoire diversification and both clinical response as well as toxicity
following immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic cancer patients Presenter:
Oh, et al., University of California, San Francisco Poster Session: Sunday,
June 5, 8:00-11:30 a.m. Location: Hall A Abstract No. 11017 / Poster No. 143:
Using G100 (Glucopyranosyl Lipid A) to transform the sarcoma tumor immune
microenvironment Presenter: Pollack, et al., Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center Poster Session: Monday, June 6, 8:00-11:30 a.m. Location: Hall A
Abstract No. 5546 / Poster No. 369: Prognostic effects of peripheral and
tumor-infiltrating T-cell repertoire diversity in ovarian cancer Presenter:
Odunsi, et al., Roswell Park Cancer Institute Poster Session: Monday, June 6,
1:00-4:30 p.m. Location: Hall A About Adaptive Biotechnologies® Adaptive
Biotechnologies is the pioneer and leader in combining high-throughput
sequencing and expert bioinformatics to profile T-cell and B-cell receptors.
Adaptive is bringing the accuracy and sensitivity of its immunosequencing
platform into laboratories around the world to drive groundbreaking research
in cancer and other immune-mediated diseases. Adaptive also translates
immunosequencing discoveries into clinical diagnostics and therapeutic
development to improve patient care. For more information please visit
adaptivebiotech.com. About the immunoSEQ® Platform Adaptive’s immunoSEQ
Platform helps researchers make discoveries in areas such as oncology,
autoimmune disorders, infectious diseases and basic immunology. The immunoSEQ
Assays can identify millions of T- and B-cell receptors from a single sample
in exquisite detail. Offered as a Service or Kit, immunoSEQ Assays provide
quantitative, reproducible sequencing results along with access to powerful,
easy-to-use analysis tools. The immunoSEQ Assays are for research use only and
are not for use in diagnostic procedures. CONTACT: Adaptive Biotechnologies
April Falcone 206-939-3835 media@adaptivebiotech.com Understanding the role of
the immune system in combating cancer is rapidly becoming a necessary
component of treatment, requiring a new class of biomarkers Harlan Robins
Previous Press Release Adaptive Biotechnologies to Present 2 Studies
Demonstrating Utility of Immunosequencing to Propel Diagnostic Development and
Therapeutic Discovery at the 2016 American Association of Immunologists Annual
Meeting 05/14/2016 Next Press Release Adaptive Biotechnologies and
Collaborators to Present Data Demonstrating High-Throughput Sequencing for
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) is More Sensitive than Flow Cytometry and Can
Be Used as a Determinant of Early Response to Therapy 06/10/2016
Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888) 522-8988 Immune Profiling
PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products & ServicesLIFE SCIENCES
RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ® Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY
Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular Therapy Antigen Map
Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur Story Culture
Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All Rights
Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy HIPAA
Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses