Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
8/6/2013 4:45PM Making Your Motorola Phone a One-of-a-Kind Want a way for your
phone to stand out? The Moto X by Motorola Mobility allows you to do just that
with a website -- MotoMaker.com -- that lets you custom-design your phone's
specifications. WSJ's Katherine Boehret says it puts the fun back into buying
a phone. Transcript This transcript has been automatically generated and may
not be 100% accurate.I ... the Act Wall Street Journal ... this week I've been
using the Moto AXA's says Motorola Mobility is news on that will be out at the
and as August or early September ... now this is a really exciting fun and a
lot of ways that I focused mostly on one component that distinguishes it from
its competitors ... its ability to be person on this ... you do this using
something called Moto maker now this is the website you can go see it s like
an on line design studio ... and allows you to create a fun that is distinctly
yours ... even she is from eighteen different colors for the back of the phone
... seven different accent colors around the phone ... and see different
bright colors that appear on the face of the found ... this nice if somewhat
unique instead of having to climb the big case on and set changes the shape of
the fire the design and and that's what was originally intended by the makers
of the fund ... say don't have to make it look so ugly and difference ... and
also the lessee and the ability to see that inscriptions the back of funds
they might add your email address if you think it might get lost ... he can
also set the software on the found to be yours so you can create a wallpaper
that will match the colors of the funny she is ... and this fall papers are
suggested according to your colors ... how science is from several different
sizes of cases and they're all different colors ... and those going for fun he
says he answered the phones that comes all packaged together ... as he or
Google ID so that when you pick up the fallen out of the box ... NRA has all
of your he now set up all of your different Google Drive documents and
anything ounce and table settings that she may want on that phone ... in that
sense it's like the Kindle Amazon started that awhile ago or even ordered your
candle ... at Ardi have your account set up ... and think people really do
like that feeling of picking out the box and taking on out that there's
there's already ... so this will be a hundred ninety nine dollars the calls as
personalization is very ... fair few things that will cost extra for example
by the end of the aerial the adults in order for different types of wood in
bad for your phone ... this is pretty cool vessel cost a little bit extra ...
also if you order thirty two gigabyte found he'll pay fifty dollars mark ...
rather than the sixteen gigabyte which is very ... I did that really cool
feature here is that you'll get the phone within four days when you submit
your order and the way they do that is there making the sons in Texas rather
than the set now lot of the parts of summer means that ... they're assembling
them in Texas and ... as you walk through this studio ... you clearly see
exactly how much of the pain for the phone or any other accessories that you
might be getting with it ... as well as when a shipping date will be is so
it's really clear to us there is no kind of ... confusion as to go through the
ordering of this on ... the downside is they will only be available for
eighteen T users at first the Moto X comes out first on eighteen T ... and H
and his exclusive rights to this model maker site ... but Bryson has Ardi
announced that it will use my maker by the end of this year he and other
carriers will follow ... so if you are interested in getting from that has
some unique features and if something the huge truly made auto maker might be
a real feature that she'd like to let ... I'm Katie Brat after Wall Street
Journal ... Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if
Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News for President Trump?
1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35
China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More →
Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of
Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled House elected Nancy
Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle with President Trump
over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of
'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New
Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks to Border Wall Demands as
Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven: One Family's Journey
After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More → Moving Upstream 9:56
Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to Traffic and Sabbath
12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting speed bumps in the
U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one in 10 residents has
rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be embracing them. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and potential lessons of the
e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-Tube Steak 12/11/2018
5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take Extreme Measures
12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to Identify Good and Evil
11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the Cockpit 11/12/2018
5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News
For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a blockbuster jobs
report despite a trade war with China and a partial government shutdown. WSJ's
Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for President Trump. Photo:
Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42
Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It 1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite
Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon
Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell
Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of
the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for
Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim
Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over
Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have
Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content
11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing
violence from her hometown in Honduras, Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands
of miles with her daughter to the Mexico - U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall
Street Journal followed her as she weighed her options to cross into the U.S.,
hoping to leave behind her past. Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle
to Keep a Son's Promise 12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence
Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China
Manipulate Amazon 12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in
the Restaurant Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get
the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018
DeepSense, based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence
to assess job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts.
WSJ’s Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest
to Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition
Spurs Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 27:34
Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce 1/17/2017 3:39PM 2:21 Sponsored Am I
Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data Revolution
9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape One's Success
1/24/2018 More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How automated
digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019 Here's how the
'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you receive your
paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money buys a house
1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's holding it
back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses Hillary Clinton
and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking industry will spend
$100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More → The Wall Street
Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com Barrons.com
BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content Partnerships
Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data Policy Your Ad
Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS Feeds WSJ on
Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us Global Support
WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse Videos Programs
Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On