Order Careers Contact Us Sign in Adaptive Biotechnologies Order Careers
Contact Us Sign in Immune Profiling Platform Platform OverviewPublications
Products & Services LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCHimmunoSEQ®CLINICAL
DIAGNOSTICSclonoSEQ®PipelineDRUG DISCOVERYCellular TherapyVaccines
PARTNERSHIPS Cancer Cellular TherapyAntigen MapBiopharma PartnershipsStrategic
Collaborators About Us Our StoryCultureCareersNewsroomContact Us TERMS OF
SERVICE Last updated: July 30, 2018 Please read these Website Terms of Use
(these “Terms”) carefully before using our websites because by using and or
visiting our websites that link to these Terms, you signify your assent to
these Terms. These Terms are a binding agreement between you and Adaptive. The
words “Adaptive” and “we” or “us” refer to Adaptive Biotechnologies
Corporation or its subsidiary or affiliate that maintains the relevant
website, and the term “you” refers both to you in your individual capacity
and, if applicable, to your employer or institution if you are accessing our
websites in your capacity as an employee, agent or other representative of
such an entity. BY USING ANY OF OUR WEBSITES, YOU ARE STATING THAT YOU HAVE
READ AND UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, THESE TERMS (WHETHER OR NOT YOU
CONFIRM YOUR AGREEMENT, SUCH AS BY CLICKING “I AGREE”). IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
THESE TERMS, YOU ARE NOT PERMITTED TO USE ANY OF OUR WEBSITES THAT LINK TO
THESE TERMS. THESE TERMS INCLUDE (1) A WAIVER OF RIGHTS TO BRING A CLASS
ACTION AGAINST US; AND (2) A RELEASE BY YOU OF ALL CLAIMS FOR DAMAGE AGAINST
US AND CERTAIN THIRD PARTIES THAT MAY ARISE OUT OF YOUR USE OF ANY OF THE
WEBSITES. BY USING ANY OF THE WEBSITES, YOU AGREE TO THESE PROVISIONS. IF YOU
THINK YOU MAY HAVE A MEDICAL EMERGENCY, PLEASE IMMEDIATELY CALL 911 IF YOU ARE
IN THE UNITED STATES OR THE EQUIVALENT EMERGENCY NUMBER IF YOU ARE IN ANOTHER
COUNTRY. These Terms of Use incorporate by reference our Website Privacy
Policy, located here, and our Privacy Shield Policy, located here. Our Website
Privacy Policy explains the information we may collect, how we use and share
that information, and other important information. The Privacy Shield Policy
describes the commitments Adaptive has made to protect personal data it
receives from third parties located in the European Union or Switzerland.
Please read the referenced policies carefully as you are agreeing to them when
you use our websites or otherwise agree to these Terms. NO MEDICAL ADVICE The
information, files, documents, text, photographs, images, audio, and any
materials accessed through or made available for use or download through any
of our websites (“Content”), including, without limitation, any information
about diseases, conditions, treatments, or products, are for informational
purposes only. The Content is not intended to be and is not a substitute for
professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Nothing on our websites
should be construed as the giving of advice or the making of a recommendation
regarding any decision or action related to your health or the health of
others. We do not monitor or authenticate the information contained on our
websites for accuracy, safety, or reliability. Inclusion of Content on any of
our websites does not mean that Adaptive supports or recommends a specific
treatment, medicine, physician, or other information on our websites. Any
reliance on such Content is solely at your own risk. You should consult a
doctor or other qualified health care professional regarding any questions you
have about your health or before making any decisions related to your health
or wellness. If you are a doctor or other qualified health care professional,
you should not offer any medical advice or treatment on our websites, nor
should you allow the content of our websites to substitute for your own
medical judgment, which you should exercise in evaluating the information on
any of our websites. Please thoroughly review the information provided our
websites before deciding whether any of the products, services or treatments
mentioned are right for you or others. SCOPE OF THESE TERMS We have designed
our websites to provide general information about us and our products and
research to users who are at least 18 years old. Our research use only
products and services (such as those marketed under the immunoSEQ™ name), are
generally available for order by qualified companies and institutions, but we
may reject any order in our sole discretion. In addition, these Terms do not
govern access and use of the immunoSEQ Analyzer and related services,
including data generated from samples you may send us for processing in
connection with our immunoSEQ service. Your rights and obligations in
connection with the immunoSEQ Analyzer are instead governed by the immunoSEQ
Terms of Use you accepted upon account creation (as may be updated from time
to time) or, if applicable, another written agreement between you and us. Our
clonoSEQ℠ service and other clinical laboratory services are diagnostic tests
that can only be ordered by an authorized healthcare provider. Information
submitted to us in connection with our clinical laboratory service that
comprises protected health information is governed by other policies that are
compliant with the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA), which can be viewed at https://www.adaptivebiotech.com/hipaa-privacy-
practice YOUR OBLIGATIONS If you access and use any of our websites outside
the United States, you are solely responsible for complying with all
applicable local, state, federal, national, provincial, foreign, and
international statutes, treaties, regulations, rules, orders, and other laws
(each, a “Law”) with respect to such access and use. Access to our websites
from jurisdictions where the contents are illegal or penalized, or where these
Terms are not enforceable in full, is strictly prohibited. We make no
representation that materials in our websites are appropriate or available for
use in all locations worldwide. You are not obligated to register with us in
order to access our websites. However, from time to time we may offer certain
features and services for which registration is necessary. If you elect to
register, you agree to provide and update true, current and complete
information about yourself and, if applicable, your employer, institution or
other entity on whose behalf you are accessing such features or services. Such
features or services may be subject to additional terms (“Additional Terms”),
which will be described in separate policies posted on the applicable
websites. The Additional Terms will supplement these Terms and will control
over any conflict between the Additional Terms and these Terms with respect to
the specific websites, features, services or portions of any of the foregoing,
subject to the Additional Terms. In using our websites, you agree not to:
Misrepresent your identity or affiliation in any way or submit false,
inaccurate or misleading information; Send or otherwise transmit unlawful,
infringing, harmful, harassing, defamatory, threatening, hateful, obscene or
otherwise objectionable material of any kind, or any material that can cause
harm or delay to our websites or computers of any kind; Send or otherwise
transmit email chain letters, unsolicited messages, or “spamming” or
“phishing” messages; Send or otherwise transmit unauthorized advertising,
solicitation or promotional materials; Send or otherwise transmit materials
that infringe any copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other
proprietary rights or rights of publicity or privacy of any party; Use our
websites to disclose or obtain another’s personal information, or collect
information about other users; Gain unauthorized access to our websites, or
assist others to gain unauthorized access; Interfere with or disrupt any of
our websites or any software, hardware, telecommunications equipment or
networks used by us; Launch or use any automated system, including without
limitation, “robots,” “spiders,” or “offline readers,” that access our
websites in a manner that sends more request messages to our servers in a
given period of time than a human can reasonably produce in the same period by
using a conventional web browser except for inclusion of the websites in a
search index; Transmit or otherwise make available any virus, worm, adware,
spyware or any other harmful computer code, file or program, including any
that may or is intended to damage or hijack the operation of any hardware,
software or telecommunications equipment; Violate these terms or any
applicable Laws; or Assist anyone engaging in any of the activities described
above. We reserve the right to investigate and take appropriate legal action
against anyone who, in our sole discretion, violates these Terms, including
without limitation, removing the offending content from our websites,
suspending or terminating the access of such violators to our websites and
reporting violations to the law enforcement authorities. THIRD PARTY CONTENT,
YOUR CONTENT AND FEEDBACK no circumstances will we be liable in any way for
any content or materials of any third parties, whether included on any of our
websites or made available through links, including, but not limited to, for
any errors or omissions in any content, or for any loss or damage of any kind
incurred as a result of the use of any such content (collectively, “Third
Party Content”). Links to third-party websites or pages are provided for
convenience only and your use of such third-party websites may be subject to
additional third-party policies and terms. We do not control any Third Party
Content and do not guarantee the availability or display of any Third Party
Content. We reserve the right to remove any Third Party Content from our
websites at any time in our sole discretion. Any opinions, advice, statements,
views, positions, services, offers, or other Third Party Content expressed or
made available on or through our websites are solely those of the respective
authors or distributors, and do not necessarily reflect our opinions, views,
or position. We do not necessarily endorse any particular third party
products, services or treatments. You use or rely on Third Party Content at
your own risk. Information on our websites about companies other than us in
press releases or otherwise should not be relied upon as being endorsed by us.
If you submit information or material through any means (collectively, “Your
Content”) to any of our websites, you, to the extent you have any rights in
such information or material, grant us a nonexclusive, royalty-free,
worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable, and fully sublicensable right to use,
reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, perform, create derivative works
from, distribute, and display Your Content throughout the world in any media.
To the maximum extent possible under applicable Law, you waive any moral
rights you may have in such content. You grant us and our sublicensees the
right to use the name, screen name, city or zip code, and other biographical
information that you submit in connection with Your Content, if we or they
choose. You represent and warrant that: (i) you own or otherwise control all
of the rights to the content that you post, including any intellectual
property or other proprietary rights other than content that you clearly
identify as Third Party Content, e.g., links to third party websites; (ii)
Your Content is accurate; (iii) neither Your Content nor your posting or
submission of Your Content violates any of these Terms, including without
limitation the prohibitions on use of our websites set forth above; and (iv)
neither Your Content nor your posting or submission of Your Content will cause
injury to any person or entity, including any privacy or security risk.
Adaptive has no responsibility for any of Your Content or the consequences of
your sharing any of Your Content with others. We have the right but not the
obligation to monitor and edit or remove any content from our websites in our
sole discretion without notice or consent. If you are a healthcare
professional, you agree not to submit any content that would or could directly
identify a patient or any content for which you do not have all necessary
consents and authorizations to disclose. (As noted above, this does not apply
to content submitted to the immunoSEQ Analyzer, which is governed by the
immunoSEQ Terms of Use or, if applicable, another written agreement between
you and us.) If Your Content includes any suggestions, ideas, or other
feedback about us, our websites, or our products, (your “Feedback”): (i) you
grant us all necessary rights to use your Feedback; (ii) you acknowledge and
agree that we are free to use and otherwise act on your Feedback with no
financial, credit, or other obligation whatsoever to you, but we are not
obligated to use your Feedback in any way; (iii) you acknowledge and agree
that we are not obligated to keep your Feedback confidential other than as set
forth in the Website Privacy Policy; and (iv) you represent that your Feedback
is entirely your original work. NOTICE AND TAKEDOWN PROCEDURES / COPYRIGHT
AGENT If you believe any materials accessible on or from any of our websites
infringe your copyright, you may request removal of those materials (or access
thereto) from any of our websites by contacting our copyright agent (at
legal@adaptivebiotech.com) and providing the following information:
Identification of the copyrighted work that you believe to be infringed.
Identification of the material that you believe to be infringing and its
location. Please describe the material and provide us with its URL or any
other pertinent information that will allow us to locate the material. Your
name, address, telephone number and (if available) e-mail address. A statement
that you have a good faith belief that the complained of use of the materials
is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. A statement
that the information that you have supplied is accurate, and indicating that
“under penalty of perjury,” you are the copyright owner or are authorized to
act on the copyright owner’s behalf. A signature or the electronic equivalent
from the copyright holder or authorized representative. Our agent for
copyright issues relating to these websites is the contact indicated at the
end of these Terms of Use. If any content that you submitted has been removed
as a result of a notification as described above and you believe that such
content was posted lawfully, please contact us about our counter-notification
procedure through which you can dispute the allegation and request re-posting
of the content at issue. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES Although we attempt to
include accurate and up-to-date information on our websites, any information
presented on our websites as of a particular date may only be accurate as of
such date and we disclaim any responsibility to update such information.
WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, OUR WEBSITES AND ALL CONTENT (INCLUDING ANY
THIRD PARTY CONTENT) ON THESE WEBSITES IS PROVIDED TO YOU ON AN “AS IS” AND
“AS AVAILABLE” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. TO THE
FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE ADAPTIVE PARTIES DISCLAIM ALL
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS IMPLIED OR STATUTORY,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION IMPLIED OR STATUTORY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE OR PURPOSE, TITLE, QUIET
ENJOYMENT, ACCURACY, NON-INFRINGEMENT AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING OUT OF COURSE
OF DEALING, USAGE, OR TRADE. USE OF OUR WEBSITES AND THE CONTENT AVAILABLE ON
OUR WEBSITES IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. WE MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES
THAT USE OF OUR WEBSITES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. YOU ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR TAKING ALL NECESSARY PRECAUTIONS TO ENSURE THAT ANY CONTENT
YOU OBTAIN FROM OUR WEBSITES IS FREE OF VIRUSES. THE ADAPTIVE PARTIES DO NOT
REPRESENT OR WARRANT THAT ANY INFORMATION OR OTHER CONTENT OBTAINED OR VIEWED
BY YOU AS A RESULT OF YOUR USE OF ANY OF OUR WEBSITES WILL BE ACCURATE OR
RELIABLE, OR THAT YOUR ACCESS TO OUR WEBSITES OR CONTENT WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED
OR ERROR-FREE. THE ADAPTIVE PARTIES DO NOT WARRANT THAT FILES AVAILABLE FOR
DOWNLOAD WILL BE FREE OF VIRUSES, WORMS, TROJAN HORSES OR OTHER DESTRUCTIVE
PROGRAMMING. YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES SUFFICIENT TO
SATISFY YOUR NEEDS FOR DATA BACK UP AND SECURITY. THE ADAPTIVE PARTIES
DISCLAIM ALL EQUITABLE INDEMNITIES. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY WE SHALL NOT BE
HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY ACTION TAKEN THAT IS BASED ON THE INFORMATION
PRESENTED ON OUR WEBSITES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE
LAW, WE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM AND IN NO EVENT WILL BE WE BE LIABLY UNDER ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, STRICT LIABILITY OR
OTHERWISE, FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PERSONAL
INJURY/WRONGFUL DEATH, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH ACCESS TO OR USE OF OUR WEBSITES, EVEN IF WE KNEW
OR SHOULD HAVE KNOWN OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION RELIANCE ON ANY CONTENT OBTAINED THROUGH THE USE OF OUR WEBSITES,
YOUR USE OR THE INABILITY TO USE ANY OF OUR WEBSITES, ANY LOSS OF DATA, OR ANY
ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE CONTENT OF OUR WEBSITES. SHOULD ANY ADAPTIVE
PARTIES BE FOUND TO BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY NOTWITHSTANDING THE
FOREGOING, SUCH LIABILITY WILL NOT EXCEED USD 100.00 (ONE HUNDRED U.S.
DOLLARS) IN THE AGGREGATE. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of
certain warranties or the limitation or exclusion of liability for incidental
or consequential damages. Accordingly, some of the above limitations and
disclaimers may not apply to you. To the extent that we may not, as a matter
of applicable Law, disclaim any implied warranty or limit our liabilities, the
scope and duration of such warranty and the extent of liability of the
Adaptive Parties will be the minimum permitted under such applicable Law.
INDEMNITY AND RELEASE To the fullest extent possible under applicable Law, you
agree that you will release, indemnify, defend and hold Adaptive and our
content providers, and all of our or their respective directors, officers,
employees, agents, contractors and representatives (collectively, the
“Adaptive Parties”) harmless from and against any and all claims, damages,
losses, costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) or other expenses that
relate to or arise directly or indirectly out of or from: (i) your breach of
any provision of these Terms; (ii) your activities in connection with our
websites; (iii) Your Content; (iv) your connection to our websites; and (v)
your violation of any rights of another. CONTENT; OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY As
between you and us, we own all Content developed or acquired by us, including
but not limited to our selection and arrangement of Third Party Content (as
defined below), but excluding Third Party Content itself. We enforce our
intellectual property rights to the fullest extent permitted by law. All
product names and logos, regardless of whether or not they appear in large
print or with a trademark symbol, are the trademarks and service marks of
Adaptive, its affiliates, related companies, licensors or collaborators,
unless otherwise noted. Ownership of such marks and the goodwill associated
with them remains with us or those other entities. All Content posted on our
websites, including any images or text, is protected by U.S. and foreign
copyright laws with all rights reserved, and may not be distributed,
downloaded, modified, reused, reposted or otherwise used except that you may
view, use and download a single copy of a reasonable amount of these websites
for your informational, non-commercial use, unless you are a licensed health
care provider (such as a physician, health care facility, or pharmacy), a
health insurance provider, or a representative of a licensed health care
provider or health insurance provider. Such entities and individuals may use
Content in connection with their professional duties, such as treating
individual patients. Except as provided herein, no part of any Content or
software on these websites may be used, copied, downloaded or stored in a
retrieval system for any other purpose, nor may it be redistributed for any
purpose, without our express written permission. You must abide by all rights
notices, information, or restrictions contained in or attached to any Content
and must not remove any trademark, copyright, or other notice from our
websites or any Content. The technology and software underlying our websites
is our property (the “Software”). You agree not to copy, modify, create a
derivative work of, reverse engineer, reverse assemble or otherwise attempt to
discover any source code, sell, assign, sublicense, or otherwise transfer any
right in the Software. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved by
Adaptive. REFUSAL OF SERVICE; TERMINATION; SURVIVAL reserve the right to
refuse service, disable or prohibit logins, remove or edit content (including
Third Party Content), limit access to content, or modify or discontinue any of
our websites or features on any of our websites in our sole discretion. may
suspend, modify or terminate your access to or use of our websites at any time
and for any reason without notice, including for violating these Terms. Upon
any notice of termination, you must destroy all content obtained from our
websites and all copies thereof. The provisions of these Terms concerning
security, prohibited activities, intellectual property, user submissions,
disclaimers, limitation of liability, indemnity, release and jurisdictional
and dispute resolution issues will survive any such termination. You agree
that if your use of our websites is terminated pursuant to these Terms, you
will not attempt to use our websites under any name, and further agree that if
you violate this restriction after being terminated, you indemnify and hold
the Adaptive Parties harmless from any and all liability that we may incur
therefor. We reserve the right to seek all remedies available under Law and in
equity for violations of these Terms for using our websites. GOVERNING LAW;
DISPUTE RESOLUTION choosing to visit our websites you agree that any dispute
over your use of our websites and these Terms will be governed by the laws of
the state of Washington without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions and
the United States. You also consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of any
disputes arising in connection with our websites including these Terms in the
federal and state courts of King County in the state of Washington. To the
extent that any of the foregoing is unenforceable under applicable Law if you
access and use any of our websites outside the United States, where permitted
under such applicable Law, the Adaptive Parties shall have the right to
designate such applicable governing Law and jurisdiction on notice to you in
the event of any such dispute. We and you hereby irrevocably submit to the
exclusive personal jurisdiction of such courts for such purpose and waive any
objection to such courts on any basis, including without limitation improper
venue or inconvenience of the forum. You agree that regardless of any statute
or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related
to use of our websites or these Terms must be filed within one (1) year after
such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. You may only resolve
disputes with us on an individual basis and may not bring and expressly waive
bringing a claim as a plaintiff or a class member in a purported class,
consolidated, multiple plaintiff or representative action (“Class Action”).
Class Actions, class arbitrations, private attorney general actions, and
consolidation with other arbitrations are not allowed. The parties expressly
waive any ability to maintain any Class Action in any forum. YOU HEREBY WAIVE
YOUR RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL IN ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF YOUR
USE OF OUR WEBSITES OR THESE TERMS. You also agree to attempt to mediate any
such dispute in good faith prior to bringing an action in court, and to abide
by all limitations of liability contained herein. If any provision of these
Terms is unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision
shall be deemed severable from these Terms and shall not affect the validity
and enforceability of any remaining provisions. MISCELLANEOUS This website may
contain forward-looking information. Such information is subject to a variety
of significant uncertainties, including scientific, business, economic and
financial factors, and therefore actual results may differ significantly from
those presented. These Terms, together with the Website Privacy Policy and
Privacy Shield Policy and any Additional Terms constitute the entire and
exclusive agreement between us with respect to their subject matter, and
govern your use of our websites, superseding any prior agreements or
negotiations between us with respect to that subject matter. Our failure to
exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms will not constitute
a waiver of such right or provision. ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NOTICE When you
use our websites or send emails to us, you are communicating with us
electronically. You consent to receiving communications from us
electronically. We may communicate with you by email or posting notices on the
applicable website. You agree that all agreements and other communications
that we provide to you electronically satisfy any legal requirement that such
communications be in writing. In order to access any such communications, you
must have a computer or other Internet-enabled device. In order to retain
copies of any such communications, you must have a printer or data storage
device. If you have a printer, you may print paper copies of any such
communications for your own use. If you wish to withdraw your consent for us
to communicate with you electronically, you may not use our websites. The
section titles in these Terms are for convenience only and have no legal or
contractual effect. MOBILE WEBSITE Our websites may include certain services
that are available via a mobile device, including (i) the ability to upload
content to our websites via a mobile device and (ii) the ability to browse our
websites from a mobile device (collectively, the “Mobile website”). To the
extent you access our Service through a mobile device, your wireless service
carrier’s standard charges, data rates and other fees may apply. In addition,
downloading, installing, or using certain elements of the Mobile website may
be prohibited or restricted by your carrier, and not all aspects of the Mobile
website may work with all carriers or devices. By using the Mobile website,
you agree that we may communicate with you regarding Adaptive by electronic
means and that certain information about your usage of the Mobile website may
be communicated to us. REVISIONS We may revise these Terms from time to time
in our sole discretion. All updates to these Terms will be posted on this web
page. If we make significant changes, we will notify you by posting a notice
on one or more of our websites or by email. Please check this website for the
most current version of these Terms. To the fullest extent permitted under
applicable Law, your continued use of our websites after we have posted a
change notice constitutes your acceptance of changes. CONTACT If you have any
questions regarding these Terms please contact us at
legal@adaptivebiotech.com. Corporate/Research (855) 466-8667 Diagnostics (888)
522-8988 Immune Profiling PlatformPlatform Overview Publications Products &
ServicesLIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH immunoSEQ® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS clonoSEQ®
Pipeline DRUG DISCOVERY Cellular Therapy Vaccines PartnershipsCancer Cellular
Therapy Antigen Map Biopharma Partnerships Strategic Collaborators About UsOur
Story Culture Careers News & Events Contact Us © Adaptive Biotechnologies. All
Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Online Privacy Policy Privacy Shield Policy
HIPAA Policy Code of Conduct Patents & Trademarks Licenses