News Is the Victorian Mourning Garb Really Necessary, Steve? Hong Kong's
Pretty Warm This Time of Year … Published on September 26, 2008 by John
Paczkowski Steve Jobs and I hope the iPhone will enter China as soon as
possible. We are discussing this issue but we do not have an agreement.” —
China Mobile CEO Wang Jianzhou It’s been nearly a year and China Mobile is
still in talks with Apple about bringing the iPhone to China, though the
revenue-sharing issue that had stalled the two companies was resolved back in
July. Now we know why the talks keep dragging on: hardware localization. The
South China Morning Post reports that China Mobile has asked Apple (AAPL) for
an iPhone with Wi-Fi and 3G technology disabled. Seems China Mobile is
building a 3G network of its own using the Chinese developed TD-SCDMA standard
and believes that crippling Chinese iPhones will discourage customers from
unlocking the device and using it on rival China Telecom’s W-CDMA network.
Though, really, China Mobile should know better. China has a thriving gray
market for iPhones. In fact, Market research firm In-Stat reported earlier
this year that there were some 400,000 cracked iPhones on China Mobile’s
network at the end of 2007–10 percent of all iPhones sold by Apple at the
time. So, will Apple agree to the carrier’s demands and customize a piece of
standardized hardware for a single region? And beyond that, could CEO Steve
Jobs even bring himself to compromise the iPhone “experience”? With 600
million cellphone users in China, 415 million of them China Mobile
subscribers, he just might. Return to: Is the Victorian Mourning Garb Really
Necessary, Steve? Hong Kong's Pretty Warm This Time of Year … URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20080926/is-the-victorian-mourning-garb-really-
necessary-steve-hong-kongs-pretty-warm-this-time-of-year/ Brought to you by
The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.