WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Katherine Boehret ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @kabster728
The Digital Solution > Websites Microsoft Effort to Best Google Yields Results
June 2, 2009 at 5:00 pm PT Tweet Share Print See More Reviews » Google is to
search what Kleenex is to tissues. Even if you’re in the habit of using
another search engine like Yahoo to look up something online, you probably say
you “Googled” it because everyone knows what you mean. Microsoft Corp. is
hoping you’ll change your habits and start “Binging” for that which you once
Googled. Last week, Microsoft announced Bing as the name of its new search
engine. The company describes Bing as delivering more answers to your search
queries directly on the search-results page, so you don’t have to keep hunting
around for what you want to find. And, like Google, Bing can be used as a
verb. I’ve been using Bing for more than two weeks now, and this search engine
really did retrieve on-target, useful information on the first try. But what I
like best about it is that it does so in a user-friendly manner that looks and
feels more inviting than Google. A feature called Hover displays a brief
summary of each Web page when your cursor is hovering over the right edge of a
link, and this can save you from visiting a useless page. As another time-
saving feature, to further save searchers from clicking to another page, Bing
answers medical queries by featuring information from the Mayo Clinic at the
top of the results page. Videos on Bing start playing when you move your
cursor over a thumbnail still image from the video, without requiring you to
press play or go to a new page; the videos stop when you mouse elsewhere. A
query about a company usually returns its customer-service phone number at the
top of the results page. Shopping, restaurant reviews and travel are also
significantly enhanced by Bing. Google isn’t going away. Both search engines
stick to plain, white backgrounds and proudly proclaim the total number of
results at the top of the page, a competition that Google almost always wins.
Google also is steadily delivering more of its own useful data right in the
results, but those efforts feel minimal compared with Bing. A technology
called Bing Travel predicts whether an airfare will go up or down in the
future. It’s a given that many people will try Bing once, get frustrated by
the unfamiliar environment and switch back to Google. Others will use whatever
their Web browser’s search box is set to (Google, for many people) because
they don’t know how to change their options or they’re too lazy to do so.
Microsoft’s Live Search engine has been replaced by Bing.com. You can bring up
Bing the old-fashioned way by going to Bing.com. This Web page is a perfect
example of the search engine’s engaging, attractive style. Bing.com evokes the
cover of a glossy magazine with a stunning photo that takes over the page.
This photo, usually slightly off-beat and somewhat alluring, changes every
day. If you move your cursor across the photo, blurbs filled with interesting
text and Web links materialize on-screen to teach you something related to the
photo. It’s a shame that many people will never see the Web page because they
search using the box built into their browser. From this home page, you can
dive directly into searching videos, like TV shows, news and sports videos, or
browsing music by watching music videos arranged by artist, genre and
popularity. I browsed through episodes of “The Office” and watched the “People
Are Crazy” music video by country singer, Billy Currington. The Bing results
page has a left-side panel called the Explore Pane, which includes suggestions
of terms and categories to select. A search for Abraham Lincoln, for example,
showed links to speeches, childhood and library — among others. The Explore
Pane includes related searches of terms that people searching for the same
thing as you also looked up. The related searches were sometimes helpful, like
“Paul McCartney Tour Dates” when I Binged the famed musician. But the related
searches also could be confusing, like when I searched for my own name and
found “Jan D’Esopo” listed as the top related search suggestion. (D’Esopo is a
painter and sculptor who is active in Puerto Rico, according to Wikipedia.) In
a Web search for tennis player Roger Federer, Microsoft’s Bing showed photos
and related search terms on the same page. I tried comparing Bing with Google
in side-by-side searches for tennis player Roger Federer. Bing showed me six
colorful images of Federer atop its results page, along with an Explore Pane
full of links to his biography, posters, quotes, blog and more. The third
listed related-search term, “Roger Federer Shirtless,” made me laugh. Google
didn’t automatically embed images of the tennis great on its results page (for
that, of course, you have to go to its Image search page), but it did display
Federer’s winning score for that day’s French Open match — information that
was extremely useful to me. Bing presents photos in a more eye-pleasing way
than Google. The Roger Federer image search on Bing filled the page with
images only — none of the messy text descriptions that appear in the same
Google search results. By selecting visuals in the top right of the Bing
results page, I changed the size of the photos to small, medium, large or
detailed. As I moved my cursor over an image, the image popped forward in a
larger version with text details. Microsoft wants people to use Bing for
shopping, and the search engine brings product reviews right to the results
page, making it look a bit like Amazon, complete with images, ratings and
links to online stores. Bing Cashback, a money-rewards program that works with
certain items, is less complicated than its confusing predecessor, but it
isn’t as clear as it should be. For people looking up airline flights,
Microsoft integrates a technology called Bing Travel into the search. This
tool predicts whether a fare will go up or down in the future based on data
aggregation and analysis. A built-in tool works similarly with hotels,
analyzing data to tell if you’re getting a good deal. After I got over my
initial resistance to Bing’s unfamiliarity, I really enjoyed using it and
found that searching with it was less of a chore and more of an interactive
experience. Microsoft gives users a true service by bringing rich content
directly to the search-results page. Edited By Walter S. Mossberg Email us at
mossbergsolution@wsj.com. Find this and other columns and videos online free
at the All Things Digital Web site: http://solution.allthingsd.com Tagged with
Bing, Bing Feature, binging, Google, googled, Internet, Live Search,
Microsoft, search, search engine You’ve Come a Long Way, Silicon Valley
December 17, 2013 at 3:47 pm PT Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage
System Offers Better Backup December 10, 2013 at 3:15 pm PT Oh, the Places
Your Phone Will Find December 03, 2013 at 3:14 pm PT Xbox One: Digital Home
Base for the Living Room November 26, 2013 at 3:25 pm PT An iPad That’s Mini
in Screen Size Only November 19, 2013 at 3:06 pm PT Search the Mossberg
Archives AllThingsD contains an archive of columns by Walt Mossberg and
Katherine Boehret from The Wall Street Journal dating back to 2005. Latest
Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
subsection&query;=Mossberg+Solution Search » Walt Mossberg’s Product Guides
Desktop PC’s and Laptops The Laptops to Buy Digital Cameras Digital Cameras
Improve Zooms, HD Function Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say Goodbye and
We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and the Corrosion
of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe All the Crazy
Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View all today’s news
» Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews
Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren Goode in Product
Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup
Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data Beamed to Your Phone
Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A Solid Windows Tablet
in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all reviews » AllThingsD by
Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and
opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other
sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different
topics, different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us »
Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms
of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily
Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential
figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All
Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on
Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version