Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
11/3/2013 5:15PM NYT Columnist Nick Bilton Talks About Twitter Book Kara
Swisher interviews NYT columnist Nick Bilton talks about his new book on how
Twitter was made. Transcript This transcript has been automatically generated
and may not be 100% accurate.... are you ... my ... it didn't work ... there
are brought you to see whether my new book on the creation up with her back
nearly a seat in a rabbit connecting ... it to the Mecane ... and joins tiny
hands down the course of action ... he I kinda get some candy for all you like
it ... was a fixed sum it up ... it's ... it's the book it is hundreds of
hours of interviews with people that sent thousands of documents emails and
internal ... legal letters and so on and then it is a constructed narrative of
the house and started namesake be ... harder Mr was that ... every time I
could be the aunt and I can do if I want you to everyone ... you care to share
in the candy ... I'm ... a book that the book is and it's the story Twitter is
not a story that one thinks they know ... and and and and and ... swoops down
and changed and moved around them and veto and raised in innovations and ...
I'm in the reporting this I'd I'd I really found this amazing that these for
human beings and for the fall ... and Jack now and it's right and and and they
how the accident weakens and the role ... and that and that the book reads
like an ant measles and although it's like Manhattan often to this very ...
lovely and ... it's retro and very dramatic dramatic ... and there there are
they are genetic and that there's a few teams that are interesting was time to
sit at the mo loneliness ... a role like we will probably lose balance
experience this ... you can along the east and the threat by connection to
devise a new witness like that ... and that's what they will like they'll come
from a very interesting backgrounds ... and they built the city hoping that
they would find connections enough to loan me a card in any way ... yet they
they made you know that the real genocide was French opponent well ... and
staying with me that that the caps actually ... all are really no object or
scene gets a lot later controversial subject we can get saying ... there was
the portrayal I had done nothing but rest of two thousand ... and nine as
assistant to ... police the West and sixty five hours with the founders and
... members on ... importing book and and and all this is is literally the
truth in that thing that I found most fascinating about it ... at least you
know people many to change over time your in your ... neck to ... get the
origin of the great gift for certain people ... but that not only that these
documents that at the time they they put thousands of photos on Flickr or
videos on YouTube ... I have photos that they they share on Ovi oh ... six nap
aunts and ... most of Twitter ... and with all this work boots and a team of
researchers are able to put together this ... this narrative that the
sleepwalking wearing where they were unanswered and eighty s I share ... these
people a chance to sense that they are the hell right this look around ... and
and that's how I know that that that thing that really that being in a
surprising thing about what is surprising to you you knew ... where ... I
think this is what surprised me was to someone who's cover Twitter in your
times from several years ... and you can only make it five to ten percent and
um you're reading these new stories ... and really understanding what was
happening ... behind the scenes was was fascinating ... I just think you know
... the amount people affected by this company out or I got this hat from one
a half ... assed Kucera PPD ... and everyone has it right when ... you try to
buy and we missed ... and never did it work out ... well I mean ... when says
he'll never see ... I actually feel it ... the oh so ... good though the
balcony and also you know that that that that that innocent of these folks
that is all people started to get in some of them became billionaires and some
of them you know ... what's right even though say accident after hijacking BBC
ask him he still ends up being a giant oil billionaires and crime on the way
well there's that they know you and you'll see this in the book that ... I
think that some of the characters no good way to markets that are actually
grew to be even though they're ... they're millionaires overnight millionaires
like to visit this area really beautiful houses that were ... under people in
the beginning that they didn't care about its wine scene towards the end of
life experiences ... the company ... and that retains the euro chair should be
any ... question ... tiny kitchen China's perfect label comes out Monday when
... the buttons on Tuesday said ... adding that in pricing is six minutes of
last the plans call so I planned the whole thing I'd ... I'd I can take credit
for the day ... I had an idea was to be within that within a week or two so I
think you can read the book now the stock and all ... the great sock I think
that I think the stock ... market pricing and very ... very fair price to be
learned from the lessons that that Facebook and new stakes in a ... and I
think that that and I think that you know where ... that ... the company ...
is the revenues continue to grow to make it either at least twenty fifteen ...
where they are in trouble growth is now ... Nana ... so long because of what
makes you stupid not understand what ... these things are and that's all that
so and so in other towns ... while hashtag fantastic and the SEC three s I'm
to Twitter asking Twitter and reading the many things just cant ... that ... I
... the ... Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if
Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News for President Trump?
1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35
China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More →
Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of
Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled House elected Nancy
Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle with President Trump
over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of
'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New
Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks to Border Wall Demands as
Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven: One Family's Journey
After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More → Moving Upstream 9:56
Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to Traffic and Sabbath
12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting speed bumps in the
U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one in 10 residents has
rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be embracing them. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and potential lessons of the
e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-Tube Steak 12/11/2018
5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take Extreme Measures
12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to Identify Good and Evil
11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the Cockpit 11/12/2018
5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good News
For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a blockbuster jobs
report despite a trade war with China and a partial government shutdown. WSJ's
Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for President Trump. Photo:
Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42
Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It 1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite
Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon
Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell
Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of
the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for
Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim
Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over
Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have
Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content
11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing
violence from her hometown in Honduras, Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands
of miles with her daughter to the Mexico - U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall
Street Journal followed her as she weighed her options to cross into the U.S.,
hoping to leave behind her past. Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle
to Keep a Son's Promise 12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence
Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China
Manipulate Amazon 12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in
the Restaurant Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get
the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018
DeepSense, based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence
to assess job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts.
WSJ’s Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest
to Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition
Spurs Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On