AllThingsD » 3GS http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000 en-US
hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Checking In With Foursquare's Dennis Crowley at
Mobile World Congress (Video) http://allthingsd.com/20110213/checking-in-with-
foursquares-dennis-crowley-at-mobile-world-congress-video/
http://allthingsd.com/20110213/checking-in-with-foursquares-dennis-crowley-at-
mobile-world-congress-video/#comments Sun, 13 Feb 2011 23:00:32 +0000
http://mobilized.allthingsd.com/?p=3996 Although tens of thousands of people
have checked in to Mobile World Congress in recent years using Foursquare,
this is the first time that Dennis Crowley has done so. However, the youthful
chief executive said that as a big mobile geek, he’s excited to see what all
the phone makers have in store. “This is like the South by Southwest of
mobile,” Crowley said, referring to Austin’s annual tech and culture festival.
He’s also eager to meet with carriers and phone makers to convince them to
more deeply integrate Foursquare into their devices and services. People
mistakenly think of Foursquare as just a game where people boast to their
friends about all the places they have been, Crowley said, but what underlies
that is a hugely powerful database of places filled with all kinds of
recommendations and other inside information. Over time, Crowley hopes
Foursquare will be able to tap the aggregate data and serve it up in useful
ways, as well as help individuals get personalized recommendations based on
their past check-ins. One way Mobilized tries to get a sense for the strength
of the different mobile platforms is by asking time-crunched developers how
they are allocating resources. Crowley said Foursquare, which now has about 50
employees, has three developers on iPhone and two each on Android and
BlackBerry. The company used outside partners to create its Nokia and Windows
Phone 7 apps. As for Crowley, he’s been splitting his time between an Android
device and his beloved iPhone. His well-worn phone is covered front and back
with various stickers–all the easier to pick out his device, he says. But
Crowley doesn’t have the iPhone 4, instead sticking with the 3GS. Crowley said
his colleagues all upgrade to the latest and greatest and someone needs to
make sure the service still works on older gear. “I like to keep it one
generation behind,” he said. “Someone’s got to take one for the team.” I
pressed him on the potential for dangers with all this checking-in, including
concerns about physical safety. Without trying to dismiss the issue, Crowley
noted that he’s been checking in with his location as long as anyone–since
2000–and has yet to have anything bad happen. The worst thing that’s happened
to him, he said, is people showing up to parties uninvited. For more from
Crowley, check out the video we did in the lobby of his Barcelona hotel. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110213/checking-in-with-foursquares-dennis-crowley-at-
mobile-world-congress-video/feed/ 0 Internet Access in Hotel Rooms
http://allthingsd.com/20110119/internet-access-in-hotel-rooms/
http://allthingsd.com/20110119/internet-access-in-hotel-rooms/#comments Thu,
20 Jan 2011 02:00:15 +0000 http://mailbox.allthingsd.com/?p=824 Q: I have a
3GS iPhone. Is there a way to connect it to the Internet cable found in hotel
and motel rooms? A: Not that I know of. But you can do this indirectly by
creating your own Wi-Fi network from the wired connection in the room. There
are two ways to do this. One possibility is to carry a small portable router.
These are small devices that plug into the wired connection and propagate a
Wi-Fi signal in the hotel room that the iPhone (or other devices, like laptops
and tablets) can use. A second option is to plug a laptop into the physical
connection and use it as a Wi-Fi base station by setting up what’s called an
“ad hoc” or computer-to-computer Wi-Fi connection. Steps for doing this, which
can be a bit techie, differ depending on whether you use a PC or Mac. Q: I
have been struggling with a hard drive space shortage for at least a year. I
have deleted duplicate emails. I have deleted videos and word files and put
them on a stand alone hard drive. Do you have any other suggestions? A: If you
don’t want to, or can’t, replace your laptop, and don’t want to be tethered to
your external hard disk, you might look into buying a new, larger, internal
hard disk. Many stores and consultants can sell and install larger hard disks,
and even transfer the data from your old one. Q: I have thousands of photos on
my computer and external hard drives. I’m in the process of trying to organize
them on one hard drive and noticed that there are many duplicates between the
different devices. Is there one program that you recommend that reliably
detects and allows the removal of duplicate files? A: You might try using
Google’s Picasa to sweep the drives, locate the photos, and display them. The
program has a feature that can avoid importing duplicates. Once imported, if
there are still duplicates, Picasa offers methods to hide or actually delete
them from your disk. Information on this is at http://bit.ly/8YKTzy. You can
find Mossberg’s Mailbox, and my other columns, online for free at the new All
Things Digital website, http://walt.allthingsd.com. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20110119/internet-access-in-hotel-rooms/feed/ 2 IPhone
Users Finally Get a Gander at Google Goggles
http://allthingsd.com/20101006/iphone-users-finally-get-a-gander-at-google-
goggles/ http://allthingsd.com/20101006/iphone-users-finally-get-a-gander-at-
google-goggles/#comments Wed, 06 Oct 2010 13:21:47 +0000
http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=30725 A year after their Android-phone-toting
peers, owners of Apple’s iPhone are finally able to play around with Google
Goggles, a Labs app that can identify and return relevant search results about
certain objects (landmarks, logos, book and CD covers) as they are viewed
through the phone’s camera. Goggles is now part of the Google Mobile App,
available in the Apple App Store and supported on iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4
running iOS 4 or above. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20101006/iphone-users-
finally-get-a-gander-at-google-goggles/feed/ 0 Jobs on iPhone 4: "The Most
Successful Product Launch in Apple's History"
http://allthingsd.com/20100628/apple-sells-1-7-million-iphone-4s-in-3-days/
http://allthingsd.com/20100628/apple-sells-1-7-million-
iphone-4s-in-3-days/#comments Mon, 28 Jun 2010 12:30:37 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43688 The launch of the iPhone 4 was
Apple’s biggest iPhone launch to date and the company’s most successful
product launch ever. Apple (AAPL) sold more than 1.7 million iPhone 4s in the
device’s first three days at market. “This is the most successful product
launch in Apple’s history,” CEO Steve Jobs said in a statement. “Even so, we
apologize to those customers who were turned away because we did not have
enough supply.” Sales of 1.7 million units in three days: That’s nearly double
the number sold during the launch of the 3Gs and damn close to some of the
more bullish first-weekend sales estimates. Makes you wonder how many units
the company might have sold had supply not been constrained and had the still
missing-in-action white iPhone 4 been available for purchase at launch. An
impressive showing, particularly considering that it took Apple 72 days to
sell one million of the first iPhone in 2007. Below, the official
announcement: iPhone 4 Sales Top 1.7 Million Apple® today announced that it
has sold over 1.7 million of its iPhone® 4 through Saturday, June 26, just
three days after its launch on June 24. The new iPhone 4 features FaceTime®,
which makes video calling as easy as one tap, and Apple’s new Retina display,
the highest resolution display ever built into a phone, resulting in stunning
text, images and video. “This is the most successful product launch in Apple’s
history,” said Steve Jobs, Apple’s CEO. “Even so, we apologize to those
customers who were turned away because we did not have enough supply.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100628/apple-sells-1-7-million-
iphone-4s-in-3-days/feed/ 0 77 Percent of Early iPhone 4 Sales Were Upgrades
http://allthingsd.com/20100625/43560/
http://allthingsd.com/20100625/43560/#comments Fri, 25 Jun 2010 12:18:44 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43560 Apple’s new iPhone 4 is proving to
be one hell of a brand-loyalty generator. According to Piper Jaffray (PJC)
analyst Gene Munster, 77 percent of iPhone 4 sales Thursday were upgrades
purchased by existing iPhone owners. Compare that with 56 percent in 2009 and
38 percent in 2008, and you’ve got quite the trend. “Apple is effectively
building a recurring revenue stream, where iPhone users pay on average $200
year to stay current with the latest phone,” Munster wrote in a note to
clients this morning. “While its true that iPhone 4 is a more significant
feature upgrade compared to the 3GS, and we expect this upgrade rate to
decline next year, Apple has in three years built brand loyalty in the phone
market that compels users to upgrade to the latest version and wait in line
for one to six hours to pick up their iPhone.” And Apple (AAPL) is not the
sole beneficiary of that loyalty. Its carrier partners, particularly those
with iPhone-exclusivity deals, are benefiting as well, though the upside seems
to decline with every new launch. Munster says 16 percent of the new U.S.
iPhone buyers he surveyed this year were switching carriers to AT&T; (T), down
significantly from 28 percent last year. This suggests two things: Most people
willing to leave another carrier specifically to get the iPhone have already
done so. Apple needs another carrier partner in the U.S. to further maximize
iPhone sales. The latter point is, of course, obvious. As I’ve noted here
before, adding a second U.S. carrier, like Verizon (VZ), would essentially
double Apple’s addressable consumer base. As recently as last week, analysts
were predicting such a move would spike iPhone sales by nine million in 2011.
Given this and the new switcher metric Munster cited today, I think it’s
pretty clear where we’re headed. So, how many iPhones is the analyst calling
for Apple to sell this weekend? “While we think Apple will sell between 1.0m
to 1.5m iPhones in the first three days (including preorders), the actual
number is largely irrelevant,” Munster wrote. “Apple is tapping into the
global consumer spending sweet spot, mobile, and as a result iPhone numbers
are going higher in the coming years.” Click on table to enlarge: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100625/43560/feed/ 0 Eager Japanese Buy iPhone 4
http://allthingsd.com/20100624/eager-japanese-buy-iphone-4/
http://allthingsd.com/20100624/eager-japanese-buy-iphone-4/#comments Thu, 24
Jun 2010 07:00:05 +0000 http://voices.allthingsd.com/?p=26430 Apple Inc.
(AAPL) started selling the iPhone 4, the latest version of its wildly popular
smartphone, on Thursday morning to teeming crowds of eager Japanese consumers
– including some who waited three days to be among the first in the world to
purchase the new handset. The enthusiasm for the iPhone 4 in Japan, a country
with notoriously finicky consumers and once considered nearly impossible to
crack for foreign handset makers, underscores how Apple has rewritten the
rules with the iPhone. The company’s iconic mobile phone has sold more than 50
million units worldwide since its 2007 debut and is now the company’s largest
business. The iPhone 4 is completely redesigned from previous models with a
better display, a glass front and back, and a stainless steel frame that
doubles as an antenna. Since it became available for pre-orders on June 15, it
has been in such high demand that AT&T; Inc. (T), Apple’s exclusive U.S.
wireless carrier, was forced to halt pre-orders. AT&T; said pre-order volumes
were ten times higher than for the iPhone 3GS last year. Read the rest of this
post on the original site ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100624/eager-japanese-
buy-iphone-4/feed/ 0 An iPhone 4 Review Roundup
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/#comments Tue, 22
Jun 2010 22:09:48 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43315 “This is
really hot,” Apple (AAPL) CEO Steve Jobs said of the iPhone 4 when he unveiled
it at the company’s Worldwide Developers Conference earlier this month. And
the pundits seem to agree. The first reviews of the device began rolling in
Tuesday afternoon and they are largely glowing, despite some expected
complaints about the device’s performance on AT&T;’s (T) network. Below,
excerpts from a few of them. In both hardware and software, [the iPhone4] is a
major leap over its already-excellent predecessor, the iPhone 3GS. It has some
downsides and limitations–most important, the overwhelmed AT&T; network in the
U.S., which, in my tests, the new phone handled sometimes better and,
unfortunately, sometimes worse than its predecessor….But, overall, Apple has
delivered a big, well-designed update that, in my view, keeps it in the lead
in the smartphone wars…. The most important downside of the iPhone 4 is that,
in the U.S., it’s shackled to AT&T;, which not only still operates a network
that has trouble connecting and maintaining calls in many cities, but now has
abandoned unlimited, flat-rate data plans. Apple needs a second network. Both
Apple and AT&T; told me they worked to make the iPhone 4 do a better job with
AT&T;’s network. For example, the phone itself is surrounded by a prominent
stainless-steel trim piece that acts as a large antenna. And Apple said it
also tuned the phone to try to grab whatever band on the network was less
congested or less affected by interference–to stress the quality of a signal
over its raw strength. AT&T; said it, too, made some changes to its network
with the new iPhone in mind. But, in my tests, network reception was a mixed
bag. — Walt Mossberg, The Wall Street Journal [The iPhone 4] is not the first
phone with both a front and back camera. It’s not even the first one to make
video calls. But the iPhone 4 is the first phone to make good video calls,
reliably, with no sign-up or setup, with a single tap. The picture and audio
are rock solid, with very little delay, and it works the first time and every
time….Now, the iPhone is no longer the undisputed king of app phones. In
particular, the technically inclined may find greater flexibility and choice
among its Android rivals, like the HTC Incredible and Evo. They’re more
complicated, and their app store not as good, but they’re loaded with
droolworthy features like turn-by-turn GPS instructions, speech recognition
that saves you typing, removable batteries and a choice of cell networks. If
what you care about, however, is size and shape, beauty and battery life,
polish and pleasure, then the iPhone 4 is calling your name. — David Pogue,
New York Times The new iPhone 4 I’ve been testing for about a week and a
half–along with the major refresh of the mobile operating system software at
the core of recent models–demonstrates once again why Apple’s handset is the
one to beat, even as it faces fierce competition from phones based on Google’s
Android platform, among others….Critics are left with reasons to whine.
Apple’s public dissing of Adobe Flash means you’ll still come upon Web video
sites that don’t make nice with the iPhone. I had a few dropped calls. The
battery still isn’t user-replaceable, and there’s no slot for expanding
memory. — Ed Baig, USA Today We’re not going to beat around the bush–in our
approximation, the iPhone 4 is the best smartphone on the market right now.
The combination of gorgeous new hardware, that amazing display, upgraded
cameras, and major improvements to the operating system make this an extremely
formidable package. Yes, there are still pain points that we want to see Apple
fix, and yes, there are some amazing alternatives to the iPhone 4 out there.
But when it comes to the total package–fit and finish in both software and
hardware, performance, app selection, and all of the little details that make
a device like this what it is–we think it’s the cream of the current crop. We
won’t argue that a lot of this is a matter of taste–some people will just
prefer the way Android or Symbian works to the iPhone, and others will be on
the lookout for a hardware keyboard or a particular asset that the iPhone 4
lacks–but in terms of the total picture, it’s tough to deny that Apple has
moved one step past the competition with this phone. — Josh Topolsky, Engadget
The fourth incarnation of Apple’s iPhone is an incrementally improved,
familiar device–not a new kind of device, as was the case with the recent
introduction of iPad. Yes, the notable features with iPhone 4–both the device
and the iOS4, which came out yesterday in advance of the iPhone itself–are
mostly tweaks. But what tweaks they are: Apple’s focus on improvement is as
much key to the quality of its products as innovation. But there’s one flaw it
doesn’t improve: the poor quality of calls placed over AT&T;, which remains
the iPhone’s only U.S. carrier….AT&T; still sucks, and the best engineering
out of Cupertino won’t change that. — Xeni Jardin, BoingBoing ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/an-iphone-4-review-roundup/feed/ 0 New iPhone
Keeps Apple Top of Class http://allthingsd.com/20100622/apple-iphone4-review/
http://allthingsd.com/20100622/apple-iphone4-review/#comments Tue, 22 Jun 2010
23:02:18 +0000 http://ptech.allthingsd.com/?p=1354 Just three years ago, Apple
wasn’t in the mobile-phone business at all. Since then, its game-changing
iPhone has become the most influential smartphone in the world. Now, on June
24, the company will roll out the fourth generation of the device, called the
iPhone 4. While attractive, capable new smartphones emerge regularly from
competitors, a new iPhone deserves special attention for two reasons. First,
the device lies at the center of a huge ecosystem of 225,000 apps, plus
popular related gadgets like Apple’s iPod Touch connected media player and
iPad tablet, which collectively are approaching 100 million units sold.
Second, the iPhone’s multitouch, gesture-based interface; elegant Web browser;
sophisticated music and video playback; and other features have been emulated
on many competing devices, so what Apple does affects the whole industry. I’ve
been testing the iPhone 4 for more than a week. In both hardware and software,
it is a major leap over its already-excellent predecessor, the iPhone 3GS. It
has some downsides and limitations—most important, the overwhelmed AT&T;
network in the U.S., which, in my tests, the new phone handled sometimes
better and, unfortunately, sometimes worse than its predecessor. I’ll get into
that below. But, overall, Apple (AAPL) has delivered a big, well-designed
update that, in my view, keeps it in the lead in the smartphone wars. The
iPhone 4 is a dramatic redesign. It manages to pack a radically sharper
screen; a second, front-facing camera; a larger battery; a better rear camera
with flash; and a faster processor into a body that is 24% thinner, a bit
narrower, and retains the same length and weight as its predecessor’s. In
fact, Apple claims that the iPhone 4 is the world’s thinnest smartphone and
sports the world’s highest-resolution smartphone screen. With the front-facing
camera, and clever new software called FaceTime, Apple has brought simple,
high-quality video calling to mobile phones, albeit, for now, only over Wi-Fi
and only among iPhone 4 owners. In multiple tests, this feature worked very
well for me and is a classic example of the value of having one company do
integrated hardware and software. In addition, the iPhone now includes an
updated operating system—which also can be installed free on the prior
model—that introduces catch-up software features such as limited multitasking
(the ability to run apps simultaneously); folders for grouping related apps;
and, for email, a unified inbox for multiple accounts and the ability to
present messages as threaded conversations. This software is called iOS4. The
iPhone 4 will cost the same as the iPhone 3GS: $199 for a model with 16
gigabytes of memory and $299 for 32 gigabytes, with a two-year contract from
AT&T; (T). The 3GS model will drop to $99 with a two-year contract and 8
gigabytes of memory. Design Physically, the iPhone 4 is attractive and feels
great in the hand. Even the back is now clad in glass, which Apple claims is a
superstrong variety 30 times tougher than plastic. I dropped it several times
from a few feet onto a hard surface with no problem, and it acquired no
scratches at all in my testing, even though I didn’t use a case or coddle it.
Although it is the same weight as its predecessor, the iPhone 4 feels denser
and tighter—more like a fine possession than a disposable gadget. It still
looks like an iPhone, but it manages to make the 3GS appear bulbous by
comparison. While its 3.5-inch screen, once considered huge, is now smaller
than those on some other smartphones, the high resolution packs in a lot of
material and makes text appear almost like ink on fine paper. The software is
simply richer looking and smoother to use than on competing phones I’ve
tested, with fewer confusing menus and settings, and far more apps. Screen,
Voice, Battery and Camera Always brilliant at marketing, Apple has dubbed its
new screen the “Retina display.” At a resolution of 960×640, it has four times
the pixels of its predecessor and displays a whopping 326 pixels per inch. I
don’t know how it compares with the human retina, but I do know that, just as
Apple claims, text on the screen shows no jagged lines, even when expanded to
giant size. Voice quality was quite good, even on long speaker-phone calls,
and data performance over Wi-Fi was excellent. Video and audio streamed from
the Web played smoothly. Apple claims longer battery life for most
functions—seven hours of talk time, for instance, versus five hours on the
earlier model. I didn’t perform a precise battery test, but, even in heavy
use, the iPhone 4’s battery never reached the red zone on a single day of my
tests. The new rear camera is another big plus. My test pictures came out
sharp and clear, even in low light and close-up situations. It isn’t the best
cellphone camera I’ve tested, but it is a big improvement. The iPhone 4
records video in high definition and, in my tests, these videos came out very
well in most conditions. Apple also is selling for $5 an iPhone version of its
Macintosh video-editing program, iMovie, for editing the videos. FaceTime
Video calling is one of this device’s best features. As noted, it currently
requires an iPhone 4 and Wi-Fi connection on both ends, though Apple says it
is making the technology free to others and hopes to have millions of
compatible devices. There is no setup and nothing to learn. You just press a
FaceTime button, and if the other person accepts the invitation to talk face
to face, his or her image appears, with your own image showing in a small
corner window. You can tap an icon on the screen to swap the front camera for
the rear one, so you can show your caller around the room, or include other
people near you who are behind the phone. You can even begin a video call as
an audio cellular call, push a button, and switch it to a Wi-Fi FaceTime call.
It worked great for me, except for a couple of brief freeze-ups. Multitasking
After years of complaints, Apple finally has brought multitasking to the
iPhone. But it has done so in a limited way that won’t please everyone. On the
iPhone 4, multitasking doesn’t mean every app can work fully in the
background. To prevent a disastrous drain on battery life, Apple has allowed
only certain apps to fully multitask. These include streaming audio services
like Pandora, which keep playing music from the Web while you do other things,
and voice-prompted navigation apps, which keep working while you’re on a call.
Others that fully work in the background include Internet calling apps, and
those that perform long downloads. But some logical candidates, such as
Twitter and Facebook, merely pause in place when you switch away from them.
You can get back to them quickly, and they update more rapidly than before,
but they don’t constantly update in the background. They only wake up in the
background if you have set them to notify you of an update, and then only for
a limited time. Apple says constant fetching of hundreds of social-networking
updates in the background would kill the battery too quickly. In fact, for
many scenarios, such as games, Apple’s version of multitasking is really just
fast switching among open apps that save their place. And, even to achieve
this, the apps must be updated. For some users, this limited version of
multitasking will be a disappointment. To use multitasking you just press the
iPhone’s home button twice and a row of icons representing running apps
appears. Click on the one you want and, if it has been updated for the new
operating system, it will appear just as you left it. Multitasking also will
work on updated iPhone 3GS models, but not on models older than that. Folders
Because iPhone users can easily accumulate hundreds of apps, it can become
difficult to organize them. So the new iPhone OS now allows you to group them
into folders. For instance, I grabbed the icon for The Wall Street Journal
app, dragged it on top of the one for the Washington Post app, and a folder
was instantly created called “News,” based on the apps’ built-in categories.
You can change the name to anything you like, or alter or disassemble the
folders. The Big Downside The most important downside of the iPhone 4 is that,
in the U.S., it’s shackled to AT&T;, which not only still operates a network
that has trouble connecting and maintaining calls in many cities, but now has
abandoned unlimited, flat-rate data plans. Apple needs a second network. Both
Apple (AAPL) and AT&T; (T) told me they worked to make the iPhone 4 do a
better job with AT&T;’s network. For example, the phone itself is surrounded
by a prominent stainless-steel trim piece that acts as a large antenna. And
Apple said it also tuned the phone to try to grab whatever band on the network
was less congested or less affected by interference—to stress the quality of a
signal over its raw strength. AT&T; said it, too, made some changes to its
network with the new iPhone in mind. But, in my tests, network reception was a
mixed bag. Compared with the previous model, the new iPhone dropped marginally
fewer calls made in my car, both in Washington and in Boston, and was much
louder and clearer over my car’s built-in Bluetooth speaker-phone system. Yet,
in some places where the signal was relatively weak, the iPhone 4 showed no
bars, or fewer bars than its predecessor. Apple says that this is a bug it
plans to fix, and that it has to do with the way the bars are presented, not
the actual ability to make a call. And, in fact, in nearly all of these cases,
the iPhone 4 was able to place calls despite the lack of bars. However, on at
least six occasions during my tests, the new iPhone was either reporting “no
service” or searching for a network while the old one, held in my other hand,
was showing at least a couple of bars. Neither Apple nor AT&T; could explain
this. The iPhone 4 quickly recovered in these situations, showing service
after a few seconds, but it was still troubling. Just as with its
predecessors, I can’t recommend this new iPhone for voice calling for people
who experience poor AT&T; reception, unless they are willing to carry a second
phone on a network that works better for them. For everyone else, however, I’d
say that Apple has built a beautiful smartphone that works well, adds
impressive new features and is still, overall, the best device in its class.
Find all of Walt Mossberg’s columns and videos online, free, at the All Things
Digital Web site, walt.allthingsd.com. Email him at mossberg@wsj.com. More
iPhone 4 Coverage » ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100622/apple-
iphone4-review/feed/ 0 Apple Unleashes iOS 4
http://allthingsd.com/20100621/apple-unleashes-ios-4/
http://allthingsd.com/20100621/apple-unleashes-ios-4/#comments Mon, 21 Jun
2010 18:00:39 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=43108 As promised,
Apple (AAPL) released iOS 4 this morning, setting the stage for the Thursday
launch of iPhone 4. The update, available for the iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS and
iPod touch, brings a number of new features to the devices, among them,
multitasking, a unified email inbox and support for app folders. Rolled out
along with it: iBooks for iPhone and iPod touch. There are good overviews of
iOS 4 at MacWorld and Ars Technica. Read Walt Mossberg’s iPhone 4 Review » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100621/apple-unleashes-ios-4/feed/ 0 Could the
iPhone's Next U.S. Carrier Be T-Mobile? http://allthingsd.com/20100610/iphone-
tmobile/ http://allthingsd.com/20100610/iphone-tmobile/#comments Thu, 10 Jun
2010 12:12:02 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=42236 AT&T;’s (T)
iPhone-exclusivity deal is nearing its end. And when it gets there, Apple will
bring the device to a new U.S. carrier. But it’s not going to be Verizon. It’s
going to be T-Mobile. That’s the theory put forth by Kaufman Bros. analyst
Shaw Wu, who argues that the carrier is a more likely candidate than Verizon
(VZ) because its network wouldn’t require Apple (AAPL) to build a separate
iPhone to support it. “Currently, T-Mobile’s 3G service (UMTS/HSPA) supports
1700 MHz and 2100 MHz frequencies while AT&T; supports 850 MHz and 1900 MHz
frequencies,” Wu wrote in a note to clients today. “Interestingly, both the
new iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS support 3G at the 2100 MHz frequency and, from our
understanding, the technical hurdle to support T-Mobile is minor compared to
supporting CDMA technology at VZ and Sprint.” That would certainly make the
transition to multiple carriers in the U.S. easier for Apple, which would
surely prefer not to have to customize the iPhone to gain increased
distribution. But the payoff would be significantly reduced. Today, Verizon is
the largest U.S. wireless carrier, with 93 million subscribers. T-Mobile has
just 34 million. A deal with the former would nearly double the iPhone’s
addressable market; a deal with the latter would increase it by a little more
than a third. Unless Apple brought the iPhone to both T-Mobile and Sprint (S).
Says Wu: “It is notable that signing up both T-Mobile and Sprint would almost
be the equivalent of signing VZ.” Of course, as Wu himself notes, Sprint’s
network is CDMA and would require a customized iPhone, just like Verizon. So
if Apple were to sign a deal with Sprint, it may as well sign one with
Verizon. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100610/iphone-tmobile/feed/ 0 Is iPhone 4
the Biggest Leap Since the Original iPhone? Analysts Say Probably.
http://allthingsd.com/20100608/munster-on-iphone4/
http://allthingsd.com/20100608/munster-on-iphone4/#comments Tue, 08 Jun 2010
11:00:32 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=41954 The first analysts’
notes on Apple’s new iPhone 4 have begun rolling in and they sound a common
theme: While not the revelation it might have been (for obvious reasons), the
device may well be, as Steve Jobs claimed Monday, “the biggest leap since the
original iPhone.” “Yesterday, Steve Jobs unveiled, at his WWDC keynote, new
iPhone 4 hardware and software,” said Kaufman Bros. analyst Shaw Wu. “While
this was widely anticipated, we believe the rich features, refinement, and
higher build quality are worth noting and difficult to comprehend without
seeing and using the new iPhone first-hand. We believe the combination of a
new form factor and software will likely serve as a powerful catalyst for
iPhone 4 sales, as we have seen in the past with several AAPL products
including the MacBook Pro, iMac, and iPod nano, to name a few.” Piper Jaffray
analyst Gene Munster felt much the same way. “While the announced features of
the iPhone 4 were as expected, the reality is this phone is significantly more
advanced than the next best alternative,” Munster wrote in a note to clients.
“We see the iPhone 4 as the most meaningful revision since the iPhone 3G two
years ago. As such, we believe more existing iPhone users will be inclined to
upgrade to the iPhone 4 than we saw with the iPhone 3GS.” Munster notes as
well that gee-whiz features like iPhone 4’s FaceTime video calling app, its HD
video camera and iMovie video editing software are together creating an
integrated experience that typically requires multiple devices. “The bottom
line is the iPhone is taking unit and dollar share from other device
categories,” he writes. Indeed, it was hard to watch Apple’s (AAPL) demo of
the device’s HD video camera working in concert with iMovie Monday and not
think that it’s going to eat the Flip Video camcorder and Kodak’s (EK) Zi8
alive as soon as it arrives at market. And things don’t look much better for
Google’s (GOOG) Android “superphones,” though obviously, there’s a much bigger
battle to be fought there. Certainly, the company and its hardware partners
have some serious work to do in the months ahead. (Yes, the EVO’s a great
start. But its battery issues are troubling, as even HTC CEO Peter Chou
conceded at D8 last week.) Said RBC analyst Mike Abramsky, “Recent competitive
Android smartphone launches by Android-powered phones have raised competitive
intensity; however, to us, iMovie for iPhone (demonstrated at WWDC) may be
illustrative of Apple’s advantage in vertical integration (software/
hardware). We expect Apple to launch other ‘Super Apps’ on iOS that advantage
the platform (multimedia, geo-positioning, touch interface, etc). Bing
introduction on iOS may portend a further shift away from reliance upon Google
for mobile search….The ‘repositioning’ of Apple’s iPhone OS–to iOS–at WWDC
accelerates Apple’s (re)assault to lead personal computing, as the industry
evolves to mobile.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100608/munster-on-
iphone4/feed/ 0 Four Out of Ten iPhones Sold to Business Users
http://allthingsd.com/20100527/four-out-of-ten-iphones-sold-to-business-users/
http://allthingsd.com/20100527/four-out-of-ten-iphones-sold-to-business-
users/#comments Thu, 27 May 2010 20:01:48 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=41648 “Five hundred dollars?…That is the
most expensive phone in the world. And it doesn’t appeal to business because
it doesn’t have a keyboard.” — Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on the iPhone,
January 2007 Who was it, again, who said Apple’s iPhone “doesn’t appeal to
business because it doesn’t have a keyboard”? Because the device clearly does
appeal to business. In fact, quite a few of the iPhones sold today are
purchased by business users, according to Ron Spears, chief of AT&T;’s (T)
Business Solutions unit. “Four out of 10 sales of the iPhone are made to
enterprise users,” Spears said at an investor conference Thursday (via ZDnet’s
Larry Dignan). “When the iPhone came out, what most people heard in the first
year from ’07 to ’08 was ‘oh my God, it’s not BlackBerry secure. This is not
going to work on the enterprise space.’ At the end of the day, it’s just
software. That’s all it is.” Elaborating on the history of adoption of the
iPhone by business users, Spears notes, “And by the time the 3G came out in
’08 [Apple] had solved about 80 percent of the security issues. By the time
the 3GS came out last summer, most CIOs will tell you today they have very few
issues around the security that they need provided as they have come to know
that RIM can do it because of the way RIM provides their solution. So
enterprises today view the iPhone as a mobile computer.” Evidently, Apple
(AAPL) has succeeded in overcoming enterprise’s early misgivings about the
iPhone’s security and business-readiness. Recall that last fall, the device
scored highest in both the consumer and business categories of JD Power’s
Smartphone Satisfaction Study. The iPhone scored 803 points out of a possible
1,000. That’s 79 points more than Research in Motion’s (RIMM) BlackBerry,
which took second place with a score of 724 points, the industry average. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100527/four-out-of-ten-iphones-sold-to-business-
users/feed/ 0 Gaming WWDC: A New iPhone–But Not on Verizon
http://allthingsd.com/20100526/gaming-wwdc-a-new-iphone-but-not-on-verizon/
http://allthingsd.com/20100526/gaming-wwdc-a-new-iphone-but-not-on-
verizon/#comments Wed, 26 May 2010 12:45:32 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=41470 Now that a pair of lost next-
generation iPhone prototypes has robbed Apple of the element of surprise, the
company’s Worldwide Developers Conference is likely to be a “non-event” for
its stock. So says Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster, who doesn’t expect the
WWDC to have much in the way of big “Oh, One More Thing” moments. According to
Munster, Apple will probably announce a fourth-generation iPhone at the
conference, and the device will probably look a lot like the prototypes we saw
earlier this spring. “Consistent with recent media reports, we expect the new
iPhone to feature a front-facing camera for video conferencing, along with a
new, thinner design, an improved rear camera, and better battery life, with
higher capacity (32GB/64GB) at the current $199/$299 price points,” Munster
writes. “We expect the new version to be popular among current iPhone 3G
owners (a 2 year-old device) with a significantly different design and feature
set (unlike the 3GS).” The company is also likely to offer an update on iPad
sales. Since that device’s launch in April, Apple (AAPL) has announced iPad
sales figures three times. WWDC would be a perfect time to do so again. And
Apple may offer a peek at the next version of Mac OS. “Apple may choose to
provide a limited demo of the next version of Mac OS X (10.7) at WWDC,”
Munster says. “Software is a key differentiator for Apple but the Mac OS has
not seen the same level of innovation as iPhone software in recent years,” the
analyst adds. “With the next version of Mac OS X, we expect Apple to bring
some of the same innovation to the Mac platform. Multi-touch technology, for
example could be a key feature of Mac OS 10.7.” But beyond these offerings,
don’t expect much. As for rumors that WWDC will see the announcement of a
Verizon (VZ) iPhone: Don’t pay them much heed. Certainly, Munster doesn’t put
much faith in them. “We believe it is unlikely that the next generation iPhone
will be available at Verizon (or Sprint) at launch,” he says. “Rather, it is
more likely that it remains exclusively available at AT&T; in the US at
launch.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100526/gaming-wwdc-a-new-iphone-but-not-
on-verizon/feed/ 0 Attention, Wal-Mart Shoppers: iPhone 3GS Clearance Sale in
Aisle Nine http://allthingsd.com/20100525/attention-walmart-shoppers-
iphone-3gs-clearance-sale-in-aisle-nine/
http://allthingsd.com/20100525/attention-walmart-shoppers-iphone-3gs-
clearance-sale-in-aisle-nine/#comments Tue, 25 May 2010 11:58:58 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=41351 With two weeks to go before
Apple’s annual Worldwide Developers Conference and the presumed debut of the
company’s next-generation iPhone, Wal-Mart is dropping the price of the entry-
level iPhone 3GS by more than half. This morning, the retailer cut the price
of iPhone 3GS devices with 16 gigabytes of memory from $197 to $97 with a two-
year service contract. Wal-Mart claims the reduction is simply part of its
“ongoing aggressive savings announcements.” But coming as it does amid
speculation about the launch of a new iPhone (and rumors of the
discontinuation of the 8GB iPhone 3G), it is being interpreted as a move to
clear out inventory before that device arrives at market. Meanwhile, Apple
(AAPL) and AT&T; (T) continue to sell the 16GB iPhone 3GS at its original
price, though I can’t imagine that this will continue much longer. When Apple
introduced the iPhone 3GS in June 2009, AT&T; slashed the price of the entry-
level 8GB iPhone 3G to $99. The company is expected to do the same thing this
year with the low-end 3GS. And, as it did last year, that price cut will
likely spur adoption of the device among the lower tiers of AT&T;’s customer
base. As BTIG Research analyst Walter Piecyk observed in a note to clients
this morning: We estimate that last years price cut of the iPhone 3G to $99
stimulated more than 3 million phone sales to existing AT&T; customers that
helped the company further penetrate the family plan with higher ARPU, lower
churn customers. We believe the impact could be even larger this year for
AT&T; given its the broad market acceptance of the iPhone, the halo impact of
the iPad and the installed base of iPhones that will need to be upgraded to a
3GS phone in order to benefit from Apple’s latest upgrade to its iPhone OS
4.0. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100525/attention-walmart-shoppers-iphone-3gs-
clearance-sale-in-aisle-nine/feed/ 0 Apple Selling More iPads Than Macs
http://allthingsd.com/20100520/apple-selling-more-ipads-than-macs/
http://allthingsd.com/20100520/apple-selling-more-ipads-than-macs/#comments
Thu, 20 May 2010 13:19:09 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=41056
Here’s a stunner of a data point: Apple is selling more than 200,000 iPads per
week. Which means, according to RBC Capital Markets analyst Mike Abramsky,
that sales of the company’s new device have outpaced those of the Mac in the
United States and are closing in on those of the iPhone 3GS. “Checks indicate
that US iPad sales remain strong post-launch, driven by rising consumer
visibility to iPad’s user experience, sustained PR/word-of-mouth marketing, 3G
iPad launch, and broadening iPad apps/content,” Abramsky wrote in a note to
clients this morning. “We believe Apple is now selling >200k iPads/week,
greater than US Macs (est. 110k Macs/week) and just below US iPhone 3GS first
quart (246k/week).” Evidently, there’s quite a bit of pent-up demand for the
device. Retail checks in mid-May showing widespread iPad stockouts at Apple
(AAPL) stores and Best Buy (BBY). The 3G iPad is sold out at many Apple
stores, and about 25 percent of them now have only Wi-Fi iPads available.
Waiting lists are not uncommon. With that in mind–not to mention the device’s
forthcoming international launch–Abramsky raised his global iPad outlook for
2010 from five million to eight million. Abramsky’s is one of the most bullish
iPad sales estimates to date, though it certainly has company. Earlier this
year, Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi predicted sales will hit five million
units in the first year, while Morgan Stanley (MS) analyst Katy Huberty said
they’d likely exceed six million. (Click on table and chart below to enlarge.)
One last point: Before we go jumping to conclusions about cannibalization of
Mac sales, recall Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster’s remarks after reviewing
NPD’s April sales data for Apple: The iPad launched in US Apple retail stores
on 4/3, impacting nearly the entire month of Apple’s sales in April. As a
result, April NPD data gives us the first sign of the degree to which the iPad
cannibalizes iPod or Mac sales. From the early NPD data, it appears that the
iPad has a minimal cannibalization impact on Mac sales, and could be slightly
cannibalizing iPod sales. [Image credit: Gizmodo commenter modestmouse and RBC
Capital Markets] ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100520/apple-selling-more-ipads-
than-macs/feed/ 0 With iPhone OS 4, Apple Joins the Multitasking Party
http://allthingsd.com/20100408/with-iphone-os-4-apple-joins-the-multitasking-
party/ http://allthingsd.com/20100408/with-iphone-os-4-apple-joins-the-
multitasking-party/#comments Thu, 08 Apr 2010 18:12:36 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=38414 Since the launch of the iPhone’s
competitors, the most valid claim for operating system superiority has been
the iPhone’s lack of multitasking. Both Palm’s (PALM) webOS and Google’s
(GOOG) Android have offered such functionality from the start. Apple’s main
concern about multitasking has always been its negative effect on battery
life. But this morning, noting that “we weren’t the first to this party, but
we’re going to be the best,” Steve Jobs announced that iPhone OS 4 will,
indeed, offer multitasking. No real specifics yet on how the company overcame
the power issue, but SVP of Software Scott Forstall took the stage to talk
about seven multitasking services that will be available to developers:
Background audio streaming Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) Background
location Push notifications Local notifications Task completion Fast app
switching Jobs noted that multitasking will be available only for the iPhone
3GS, third-generation iPod touch and iPad. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100408/with-iphone-os-4-apple-joins-the-multitasking-
party/feed/ 0 600,000-700,000 iPads Sold Saturday; Longer Than Expected Lines
at Apple Stores http://allthingsd.com/20100404/600000-700000-ipads-sold-
saturday/ http://allthingsd.com/20100404/600000-700000-ipads-sold-
saturday/#comments Sun, 04 Apr 2010 15:01:48 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=38104 The first analysts’ estimates of
launch-day iPad sales are beginning to roll in and they’re impressive, to say
the least. In a research note issued Sunday morning, Piper Jaffray’s Gene
Munster, who had expected Apple (AAPL) to sell between 200,000 and 300,000
iPads on Saturday, said his prediction was likely off by more than half. “We
estimate Apple sold between 600-700k iPads (including online pre-orders which
started on March 12th) on the first day (4/3),” he wrote. “It took Apple three
days to sell a million iPhone 3GS and iPhone 3G’s, and 74 days to sell 1m
original iPhones.” Interestingly, Munster said that inventory is not quite as
constrained as one would think given Apple’s decision last week to push some
iPad pre-order shipments ahead to April 12. “As of 7:30PM ET on Saturday night
(4/3), 19 of 20 stores we called still had availability of all models, which
is a positive for first day sales given Apple was able to fulfill most
demand,” Munster wrote. “In addition,” the analyst continued, “we noted longer
than expected lines at the five Apple stores we surveyed. For example, at the
5th Ave Store in New York we counted 730 people in line at 9am (when iPad
sales began) compared to our count of 350 people for iPhone 3GS, and 540
people for iPhone 3G.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100404/600000-700000-ipads-
sold-saturday/feed/ 0 Palm's Worst Nightmare: New iPhones on AT&T; and Verizon
http://allthingsd.com/20100330/palms-worst-nightmare-new-iphones-on-att-and-
verizon/ http://allthingsd.com/20100330/palms-worst-nightmare-new-iphones-on-
att-and-verizon/#comments Tue, 30 Mar 2010 17:54:10 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=37702 The debut of a fourth-generation
iPhone this summer and, later, a second version of the device designed for use
on CDMA networks like those operated by Verizon, will be great news for Apple,
AT&T; and, potentially, Verizon. But it doesn’t bode well at all for Palm,
which has already seen strong competition from the iPhone and new Android
devices like the Droid undermine sales of its Pixi, Pre and their “Plus”
successors. Going head-to-head with the iPhone 3GS on AT&T; will be difficult
enough for Palm (PALM). Competing with the smartphone’s souped-up successor on
AT&T; (T) and perhaps Verizon (VZ) could be disastrous. The Apple (AAPL)
iPhone has been AT&T;’s hero device since launch, and that’s not going to
change anytime soon. Said a company spokesman: “The iPhone will be an
important device for us for quite sometime.” The Pre Plus and Pixi Plus less
so, I imagine. It’s a safe bet that the same will be true of Verizon if the
carrier adds the iPhone to its lineup. Analysts mulling the consequences of
such a deal say that pent-up demand for the iPhone on Verizon’s network could
result in a massive burst of iPhone subscribers for the company. One scenario
put forth by Bernstein Research this morning suggests Verizon could stand to
gain 6.4 million new iPhone subscribers in 2010 alone, many of them existing
Verizon subscribers upgrading to the iPhone. Which would obviously leave fewer
subscribers to upgrade to Palm’s devices. That leaves Palm in a position
that’s arguably worse than the one it found itself in when its devices debuted
on Verizon, a position it blamed for its lousy third quarter. “If we could
have launched at Verizon prior to the Droid, I think we would have gotten the
attention the Droid got,” Palm CEO Jon Rubinstein said at the time. But as I
noted last week, Palm did not launch prior to the Droid. And now the company
is launching on AT&T; just as the carrier presumably prepares to introduce a
new Apple iPhone (iPhone HD?). Now it’s looking like all the hard work Palm
did to evangelize its webOS phones at Verizon could be overwhelmed by the
deluge of interest almost certain to accompany a Verizon iPhone. Which leaves
Palm in a vulnerable position, indeed. CEO Rubinstein claims Palm should have
gotten the attention garnered by Droid. Will he make similar claims if Palm
suffers further woes from a next-generation iPhone on AT&T;–or a brand new one
on Verizon? FURTHER READING: A Palliative for Palm Good Luck Competing on the
iPhone’s Home Turf, Palm Exercise in Futility? Palm Pre Plus, Pixi Plus Headed
to AT&T; Palm: Pssst. Wanna Buy 1.15 Million Smartphones? Palm Pileup: Weak
Smartphone Sales and a Gruesome Q4 Forecast Could Be Worse, Could Be Raining:
Palm’s AT&T; Launch Delayed? Could WebOS Licensing Be Palm’s Salvation? Palm’s
Salvation? Less Push, More Pull. And if Palm’s Project JumpStart Doesn’t Work
Out, There’s Always “Project Defibrillator” Double Face-Palm: Analysts React
to Palm’s Lowered Guidance Time to Start Looking for a Buyer, Palm? 2010: Year
of the Palm? Maybe Not… Analyst: Palm May Be Acquired in the Next Two Years
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100330/palms-worst-nightmare-new-iphones-on-att-
and-verizon/feed/ 0 Apple to Give Next-Generation iPhone the Finger?
http://allthingsd.com/20100226/apple-to-give-next-generation-iphone-the-
finger/ http://allthingsd.com/20100226/apple-to-give-next-generation-iphone-
the-finger/#comments Fri, 26 Feb 2010 19:55:19 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=35699 Now that rumors of an Apple tablet
have manifested themselves in the iPad, speculation about the next iteration
of the iPhone can begin in earnest. In a research note published today, Morgan
Stanley (MS) analyst Katy Huberty offers a few thoughts on what a successor to
the iPhone 3GS might look like. “We expect Apple to launch new iPhones in June
that offer both a lower total cost of ownership and new functionality,
potentially including gesture-based technology,” she wrote in a note to
clients today. “As we’ve highlighted in the past, the cost of device + service
plan is currently the biggest barrier to incremental demand in both mature
markets like the US and emerging markets like China.” Now, when Apple (AAPL)
introduced the 3GS in 2009, it dropped the price of the iPhone 3G to $99, so
it seems reasonable to expect the company to follow a similar pattern when it
introduces a new iPhone. Might the price of the new device itself also be
lower than expected? Perhaps. Certainly the fact that Apple was able to bring
the iPad to market at $499 suggests it’s possible. More intriguing than these
ruminations on price, however, is Huberty’s mention of new “gesture-based
technology.” The analyst doesn’t offer any details on what this might be, but
presumably she’s referring to advances disclosed in some recent Apple patent
filings. Among the possibilities here: A touch-sensitive bezel that would turn
the outer edges of the device into intelligent “sense lines” that give users
quick and easy access to their favorite applications, and some camera-based
swipe controls that offer one-handed control over a variety of iPhone
functions. Here’s a description of the latter from Patently Apple, which does
a far better job explaining these things than I ever could. [This] patent
reveals yet another innovative concept that is designed to help users control
their incoming calls and voicemail by simply swiping their finger over the
external camera lens. It will control rewinding and fast forwarding voicemail.
In addition, the new methodology will also enhance one handed navigation of
Web pages, documents, a contact list or your iTunes library by simply swiping
the camera lens in different swiping motion combinations. In the future, the
iPad may be able to take advantage of this feature if the camera is positioned
correctly. This would theoretically allow a user to simply flick a finger over
the camera lens to turn the page of a book or scroll a webpage without ever
having to move your hand. Sounds pretty slick, yeah? Certainly, a feature like
this would take smartphone navigation to a new level. Were it to be included
in a next-generation iPhone along with a five-megapixel camera, LED flash and
video chat support that’s rumored–well, Apple might not need the lower price
point as Huberty suggests to juice demand for the device. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100226/apple-to-give-next-generation-iphone-the-
finger/feed/ 0 Think iPhone App Starts Are Up Now? Wait Until March.
http://allthingsd.com/20100212/think-iphone-app-starts-are-up-now-wait-until-
march/ http://allthingsd.com/20100212/think-iphone-app-starts-are-up-now-wait-
until-march/#comments Fri, 12 Feb 2010 18:27:43 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=34809 The land rush for iPad developers
has begun in earnest. In its latest Smartphone Industry Pulse, Flurry
Analytics notes that iPhone app development spiked following Apple’s (AAPL)
official unveiling of the iPad. The mobile analysis firm observed that the
number of developers adding the iPhone tracking code to new projects rose from
600 in December to over 1,600 in January (see chart below; click to enlarge).
Driving that threefold increase: Enthusiasm generated by Apple’s iPad event.
“Historically, Flurry has measured surges in new application starts within its
system in anticipation of new device launches, including for the Motorola
Droid and iPhone 3GS,” Flurry’s Peter Farago explained. “As such,” Farago
noted, “we hypothesize that excitement generated by Apple’s iPad event in
January is driving this growth. For developers who get a jump on customizing
their applications for the iPad, there may be an opportunity to stand out
early on, and earn more downloads.” A reasonable assumption–with an important
caveat: Developers really haven’t had much time to play with the iPad software
development kit, yet. “I think this data has more to do with iPhone
application growth after the holiday break than it does developers ramping up
for iPad,” Raven Zachary, president of Small Society and an iPhone evangelist,
told me. “We only had access to the iPad SDK for the last five days of
January,” Zachary explained. “Generally, developers don’t integrate analytics
at the very beginning of a development project. February and March will be far
more representative of new iPad development projects. I would expect a bump
specific to iPad then.” That said, Flurry’s metrics are certainly worth noting
because they suggest that developer interest in the iPhone platform is far
from hitting a plateau. This is particularly true given the prospect of
building new iPad-specific applications that take advantage of the device’s
increased screen real estate and that speedy little A4 chip it’s running.
[Image credit: Gizmodo/Akis Alekozidis] ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100212/think-iphone-app-starts-are-up-now-wait-until-
march/feed/ 0 The Nexus One a Superphone? Sounds More Like a So-So Phone to
Me. http://allthingsd.com/20100113/the-nexus-one-a-superphone-sounds-more-
like-a-so-so-phone-to-me/ http://allthingsd.com/20100113/the-nexus-one-a-
superphone-sounds-more-like-a-so-so-phone-to-me/#comments Wed, 13 Jan 2010
15:59:53 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=32561 Early sales data
for Google’s Nexus One are in and they seem to belie the “superphone”
superlative the company has attached to the device. According to market
analytics firm Flurry, Google sold an estimated 20,000 units in its first
week. An unremarkable showing, to say the least–especially for a device
launched amid so much buzz. Flurry estimates that Nexus One was outsold by
Motorola’s (MOT) Droid by more than 12 times and by Apple’s (AAPL) iPhone 3GS
80 times. Now, Flurry’s Nexus One sales estimate is obviously the roughest of
guesses–the company gets its numbers by monitoring application usage on the
iPhone and Android platforms, not from any hard sales data. That said, it’s
likely at least directionally correct and suggests that Google (GOOG) may have
a tough time moving the five to six million Nexus One handsets analysts have
been calling for it to sell by the end of 2010–especially if customer support
issues associated with the superphone continue. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20100113/the-nexus-one-a-superphone-sounds-more-like-a-
so-so-phone-to-me/feed/ 0 Nexus One: $174.15 in Parts, $355.85
in…er…Incidentals http://allthingsd.com/20100111/nexus-one-174-15-in-
parts-355-85-in-er-incidentals/ http://allthingsd.com/20100111/nexus-
one-174-15-in-parts-355-85-in-er-incidentals/#comments Mon, 11 Jan 2010
15:59:05 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=32333 If you were to
build it yourself, Google’s new Nexus One superlative-phone would set you back
about $174.15, according to a teardown conducted by iSuppli. (See table at
right; click to enlarge.) That’s almost $5 less than the $179 T-Mobile is
charging for the device with a two-year service plan. But its about a third of
the phone’s unsubsidized price–$530. Which is interesting because, according
to Google (GOOG) VP of Engineering Andy Rubin, the guy who quarterbacked the
Nexus One’s development, smartphones, even “super” ones–shouldn’t be that
expensive. “The thing I carry around in my pocket every day…shouldn’t cost
four hundred dollars,” Rubin once told Ken Auletta, author of “Googled: The
End of the World As We Know It.” “That’s absurd. If you add up all the
components, somebody is making a lot of money.” That somebody, in this case,
would appear to be Google–though to be fair, iSuppli’s analysis doesn’t
account for manufacturing, packaging, and software expenses, not to mention
R&D; costs, which are likely quite substantial. One last point worth noting
here, the Nexus One’s teardown cost is slightly more than that of Apple’s
(AAPL) iPhone 3GS. iSuppli figures the cost of materials for that device is
about $172.46. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100111/nexus-one-174-15-in-
parts-355-85-in-er-incidentals/feed/ 0 Google's Nexus One Is Bold New Face in
Super-Smartphones http://allthingsd.com/20100105/googles-nexus-one-is-bold-
new-face-in-super-smartphones/ http://allthingsd.com/20100105/googles-nexus-
one-is-bold-new-face-in-super-smartphones/#comments Tue, 05 Jan 2010 19:02:08
+0000 http://ptech.allthingsd.com/?p=1135 Google this week is taking two
dramatic steps to try to catapult devices using its Android mobile operating
system into stronger competition with Apple’s (AAPL) iPhone and Research in
Motion’s (RIMM) BlackBerry in the battle for supremacy in the super-smartphone
category. First, the search giant is bringing out a beautiful, sleek new
Android phone, the Nexus One, built to its specifications. Second, it has
decided to offer the new phone—and future models—to consumers directly,
unlocked, via the Web, and then invite multiple carriers to compete to sell
service plans and subsidized versions of the hardware. One carrier is ready to
support the Nexus One on day one: the U.S. arm of T-Mobile, a longstanding
Google (GOOG) partner. The new Google Phone, built by HTC of Taiwan, will cost
$529 unlocked direct from Google, at google.com/phone. It will cost $179 from
T-Mobile online with a two-year contract that will set you back $79.99 a
month. Verizon Wireless (VZ) in the U.S. and Vodafone (VOD) in Europe will
sell the Nexus One eventually at subsidized prices that haven’t yet been
announced. All of this will take place on a Google-hosted Web site, a much
easier way to buy a phone and service than is typical today, and one that
promises to further weaken the power of the carriers. The company also plans
to sell the costlier, unsubsidized version to consumers in the U.K., Hong Kong
and Singapore immediately. Like Americans who buy this unlocked version, these
customers will have to purchase carrier service separately, something they
should be able to obtain right away by just buying and inserting a SIM card
from a carrier with compatible technology. (This initial unlocked phone won’t
work with Verizon or Sprint in the U.S., nor on AT&T;’s 3G network, only the
latter’s slower network.) The Nexus One has a larger screen than Apple’s
phone, and is a bit thinner, narrower and lighter—if a tad longer. And it
boasts a better camera and longer talk time between battery charges. I’ve been
testing the Nexus One for a couple of weeks and I like it a lot. It’s the best
Android phone so far, in my view, and the first I could consider carrying as
my everyday hand-held computer. It is a svelte gray device with a 3.7-inch,
high-resolution screen; a thin strip of buttons underneath for home, back,
menu and search; and a trackball. The Nexus One finally has the right
combination of hardware and software to give Android a champion that might
attract more people away from their iconic iPhones and BlackBerrys. It has a
larger screen than Apple’s phone, and is a bit thinner, narrower and
lighter—if a tad longer. And it boasts a better camera and longer talk time
between battery charges. Also, because it will be available on the large,
well-regarded Verizon 3G network, the Nexus One could tempt American iPhone
users, tired of problems with AT&T; (T), to switch. The iPhone still retains
some strong advantages. It boasts well over 100,000 third-party apps—around
125,000 by some unofficial estimates—versus around 18,000 for the Android
platform. And it has vastly more memory for storing apps, so you can keep many
more of them on your phone at any one time. On the Nexus One, only 190
megabytes of its total 4.5 gigabytes of memory is allowed for storing apps. On
the $199 iPhone, nearly all of the 16 gigabytes of memory can be used for
apps. In fact, the $199 iPhone 3GS has roughly four times as much user-
accessible memory out of the box, though the memory on the Nexus One can be
expanded via memory cards. Apple also has a more-fluid user interface, with
multitouch gestures for handling photos and Web pages. As for the BlackBerry,
its user interface looks older and clumsier with each passing day, but it has
a beautiful physical keyboard many users love, while the Nexus One has a
virtual, onscreen keyboard. The Nexus One is packed with its own tricks. Its
version of Android is essentially the same improved edition as the one that
appeared on the Motorola (MOT) Droid back in November. But it has a few new
features, including an experimental dictation capability. You just press a
microphone icon on the keyboard and start talking, and the words appear. In my
tests, this worked only adequately at best, and very poorly at worst, but
Google insists it will learn and improve. The phone also has handsome new
visual features, including “live wallpaper,” with waving grass or pulsing
colored lines; and a new zooming effect when you want to view icons that
aren’t on your main screens. In addition, you can now view miniatures of your
five main screens to help you navigate to the one you want. The Nexus One also
has all the key software features introduced in the Droid, including free
turn-by-turn voice-prompted navigation. In my tests, overall, the Nexus One
worked very well. The latency I had seen in earlier Android phones is gone,
due to a slicker version of the operating system and faster chips. The phone
feels good in the hand and the screen is magnificent, with much greater
resolution than the iPhone’s. I like very much the way social-networking
information, including status messages, is integrated into the contacts app.
One tap on a person’s picture in Contacts lets you quickly choose whether to
call, email or message her, or map her address—all without opening the contact
card itself. I also liked the pictures and videos I was able to take with the
five-megapixel camera and flash, which I preferred to my iPhone’s camera. You
can even view a photo slideshow or listen to music when the phone is in the
optional desktop dock. But there are some downsides to the Nexus One. Like all
Android phones, it relies too much, in my view, on menus that create extra
steps, including some menus that have a built-in “more” button to display a
secondary menu of choices. I also found the four buttons etched into the
phone’s bottom panel sticky and hard to press. In addition, although the Nexus
One claims seven hours of talk time versus five hours for the iPhone, most of
its battery-life claims for other functions are weaker than Apple’s. For
instance, Google claims just 6.5 hours of Wi-Fi Web use per charge, versus
nine for the iPhone, and 20 for music playback versus 30. Google claims this
is because, unlike Apple, it allows the simultaneous use of third-party apps,
which can drain the battery faster. In addition, the Nexus One, and other
Android devices, still pale beside the iPhone for playing music, video and
games. The apps available for these functions aren’t nearly as sophisticated
as on the Apple devices. Finally, the iPhone is still a better apps platform.
Not only are there more apps, but, in my experience, iPhone apps are generally
more polished and come in more varieties. But, with its fresh phone and bold
business model, Google is taking Android to a new level, and that should ramp
up the competition in the super-smartphone space. Find all of Walt Mossberg’s
columns and videos online, free, at the All Things Digital Web site,
walt.allthingsd.com. Email him at mossberg@wsj.com. Write to Walter S.
Mossberg at walt.mossberg@wsj.com ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20100105/googles-
nexus-one-is-bold-new-face-in-super-smartphones/feed/ 0 Apple: From Zero to
17.1 Percent Smartphone Share in 2.5 Years
http://allthingsd.com/20091113/apple-smartphone/
http://allthingsd.com/20091113/apple-smartphone/#comments Fri, 13 Nov 2009
15:05:13 +0000 http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=28923 Lest there be any
doubt that Apple’s iPhone is redefining the smartphone market, consider this:
In less than two and a half years, the device has managed to claim nearly a
fifth of the worldwide market for smartphones. According to new data released
this week by Gartner, Apple shipped some 7.04 million iPhones in the third
quarter–up from just 4.72 million phones in the same period a year ago–for a
17.1 percent share of the market (see table below; click to enlarge). That’s a
49.2 percent year-over-year increase in sales and it puts Apple (AAPL) in
spitting distance of Research in Motion (RIMM), which also posted close to a
50 percent year-over-year gain to claim 21 percent of smartphone sales during
the period. With 39 percent of smartphone sales, Nokia (NOK) was the top
seller during the period, and it’s clearly not ceding its spot any time soon.
But RIM might, given the small gap between its market share and Apple’s. In
any case, RIM clearly has a fight on its hands as we head in the holidays,
especially if Apple brings an 8GB iPhone 3GS to market in the next few weeks.
UPDATE: According to Apple’s last earnings announcement, the company said it
shipped 7.4 million iPhones during the quarter. Why there’s a discrepancy
between the company’s numbers and Gartner’s isn’t clear. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20091113/apple-smartphone/feed/ 0 Econalypse No
Deterrent to Smart-Phone Purchases http://allthingsd.com/20091109/econalypse-
no-deterrent-to-smartphone-purchases/
http://allthingsd.com/20091109/econalypse-no-deterrent-to-smartphone-
purchases/#comments Mon, 09 Nov 2009 12:45:00 +0000
http://digitaldaily.allthingsd.com/?p=28481 Given the havoc the econalypse has
played with other industries, the smart-phone market is in extraordinarily
good shape. Shipments of the devices rose 4.2 percent to 43.3 million globally
compared with 41.5 million shipped in the third quarter of 2008. That’s up 3.2
percent from shipments of 41.9 million in the second quarter of this year,
according to IDC’s Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker report. “Demand
for converged mobile devices has remained strong all year,” said IDC analyst
Ramon Llamas. Driving that demand: Nokia (NOK), which maintained its position
as the overall leader in the converged mobile device market, Research In
Motion (RIMM), whose BlackBerry made some significant share gains
internationally, and Apple (AAPL) and the iPhone, whose share of the smart-
phone market rose to 17.1 percent from 16.6 percent in the previous quarter
(see table below; click to enlarge). “Apple reached its highest volume yet in
a single quarter,” Llamas said. “The nearly global availability of the iPhone
3GS sparked another round of annual replacements for Apple loyalists, while
the lower price on the iPhone 3G put the device well within reach of customers
wary of the price. Although the iPhone has struggled within emerging markets,
its arrival at China Unicom this year could foreshadow greater shipment
volumes.” [Image credit: AMUSEMENT] ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20091109/econalypse-no-deterrent-to-smartphone-
purchases/feed/ 0