WSJ WSJ The Shops The Shops MarketWatch MarketWatch Barron's Barron's
Portfolio Portfolio Product X Product X rt f r&c; pe&vc; wsj b More All Things
Digital WSJ Briefcase BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal SmartMoney
Student Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Radio
WSJ Wine WSJ Live Updated Privacy Policy » AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile
Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Conferences Video Follow Us View by
Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We Say Hello Kara Swisher ethics
statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @karaswisher Recent Posts by Kara Swisher Day
59: Yahoo Buys BuzzTracker September 14, 2007 at 12:23 am PT Tweet Share Print
Now, we’re cooking with some gas over at Yahoo, closing in on the two-thirds
point of Jerry Yang’s declared 100-day March to Happiness. Today, the Internet
giant will announce the purchase of a clever Web site called BuzzTracker,
which uses a combination of editorial selection and complex algorithms to
aggregate content from all over the Web, allowing users to delve deeply into
specific topics. For those techies, it is not unlike the very fine TechMeme,
which essentially has its digital thumb on the pulse of tech news and is a big
traffic driver in the sector. While Yahoo did not disclose the price it paid
for BuzzTracker, sources close to the company said it bought the site–which is
wholly owned by Chicago-based Participate Media–for about $5 million. Earlier
this week, Yahoo’s European head Toby Coppel struck an interesting ad and
search deal with social-networking site Bebo. And last week, Yahoo bought
behavorial ad-serving network BlueLithium for $300 million. So it looks likes
the lights might be on over there at Yahoo, which has been struggling to
reinvigorate itself of late and by necessity under Yang’s leadership. Back to
BuzzTracker: Using its own technology, BuzzTracker creates “custom content
feeds” automatically that aggregate news, blogs, reviews, discussions, video
and audio. But to add a level of quality, it handpicks the 90,000 online
content sources it uses. Its motto is: “All the News the Buzz Approves.” As
BuzzTracker explains on its site: “Our goal has been to launch a news site
that leverages the power of the ‘head of the long tail’ of the blogosphere to
automatically generate news pages for a multitude of topics, both broad and
narrow.” To determine relevance of an item, for example, it looks at a range
of elements, such as what the most blogged-about story for a particular topic
is. Yahoo had looked at other better-known competitors in the space, said
sources, such as the San Francisco-based Sphere (which we use on this site for
such content aggregation). But those trendier (and more popular) start-ups
apparently had too lofty valuations. In an interview, Yahoo Media Group exec
Scott Moore said he had connected with Participate’s founder and CEO Alan
Warms, in fact, at our D5 conference in late May. (Another coincidence: I
covered one of the early start-ups at which Warms was a senior exec called
Freeloader, based in D.C., for the Washington Post.) Moore said he had been
looking around for such automated-news and content-discovery functionality, in
order to augment the efforts of Yahoo’s 60-person news team. “We want to
connect our users to as much information as possible, anything from Britney
Spears to the Santa Monica City Council meeting notes,” he said. “We love
BuzzTracker’s usefulness, because if you’re interested enough, you might want
related content we might not be publishing and hosting.” The purchase is
clearly part of Yahoo’s renewed efforts to link to more third-party content,
rather than pointing at its own owned-and-operated properties. As part of the
deal, Warms will become vice president and general manager of Yahoo News,
which Moore said currently has an audience of 36 million unique visitors a
month. Participate has said on its Web site that it will soon include user-
review and discussion sites to layer over the aggregation at BuzzTracker, much
like what happens on the popular Digg service. According to sources at Yahoo,
the company has already built a Digg competitor, but has not launched it yet.
It is not clear if that effort would be integrated into BuzzTracker or not.
Tagged with: aggregation, Alan Warms, BoomTown, BuzzTracker, digital,
Internet, Jerry Yang, Kara Swisher, Participate Media, Scott Moore, Sphere,
Yahoo Third Foxconn Worker Dies Due to Explosion, Apparently Caused by
“Combustible Dust” May 22, 2011 at 10:54 am PT Viral Video: Motion Capture
Magic in Jackson and Spielberg Movie “Tintin” May 19, 2011 at 12:54 am PT
Video: Omniture Founder Josh James Talks About $10M Funding of Hot Start-
Up–and Hotter Legal Cat Fight With Adobe May 18, 2011 at 9:21 pm PT LinkedIn
Will Price at $45 a Share (Yes, That Would Be a $4.5B Valuation) May 18, 2011
at 1:59 pm PT Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg on Women in Workplace: “Don’t Leave
Before You Leave” May 18, 2011 at 6:15 am PT AllThingsD by Writer Walt
Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried
Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey
AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and opinion on
technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other sites in
this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different topics,
different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us » Contact Us »
Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms of Service »
Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily Headlines Email »
Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential figures in
technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All Things Digital.
» D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on Twitter: Select
Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple) @ATDgoogle (Google)
@ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews (Reviews) @waltmossberg
(Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher) @JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski)
@kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka (Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried)
@LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren
Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha (Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del
Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News Reviews Mobile Media Social
Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital
Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile
Version