AllThingsD » box http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11 +0000 en-US
hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 Tech Stocks Hover Near 2013 Highs, Paving Way
for 2014 IPOs Like Alibaba, Box and Dropbox
http://allthingsd.com/20131226/tech-stocks-hover-near-2013-highs-paving-way-
for-2014-ipos-like-alibaba-box-and-dropbox/
http://allthingsd.com/20131226/tech-stocks-hover-near-2013-highs-paving-way-
for-2014-ipos-like-alibaba-box-and-dropbox/#comments Thu, 26 Dec 2013 18:07:30
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=381069 iStock Today, the tech sector got a
pretty nice post-Christmas present, as stocks of many companies in the sector
continued to remain near their highs for the year. And with 2013 seeing the
most U.S. tech IPOs since 2000 — according to a recent report, there were 45
in the year — 2014 is looking to be another strong year for public offerings.
Those include, though will not be limited to: Alibaba Group, which could
exceed Facebook’s $16 billion outing; Box, the file-sharing site; Dropbox, the
online storage upstart; Candy Crush maker King.com; Coupons.com, the digital
couponing site; Lending Club, the peer-to-peer lending service; clean-tech
firm Opower; payments phenom Square; and Internet dating company Zoosk. The
impact of the upcoming IPOs has already been felt on existing issues, most
especially Yahoo. Though some of the excitement around the stock has been due
to the shimmery image of CEO Marissa Mayer, its continued core business
declines have been largely ignored by investors in favor of its 24 percent
stake in Alibaba. In contrast to Yahoo’s lagging results, the Chinese Internet
giant’s performance has been spectacular, and it has had more than a halo
effect on shares of the Silicon Valley company. Yahoo’s stock is close to its
52-week high — reached on Tuesday at $41.05 — and is up 104.6 percent in the
year to date. Search giant Google is getting its bump from its own strong
performance, up 57.6 percent for the year and hovering close to its $1,118 per
share high. The same goes for Microsoft — despite all the uncertainty around
the identity of its new CEO, the pending departure of Steve Ballmer has its
shares up 40 percent for the year and also close to its nearly $39 high.
Retail giant Amazon is up more than 60 percent, close to its $405 high.
LinkedIn shares have gained 92.4 percent, although it is now off its $257.56
high by about $30. And, despite some troubles, AOL is up 53 percent, near its
$46.98 high. The stocks of both social Internet leaders — Facebook and Twitter
— are also performing well. Facebook is up 117 percent for the year, after a
lackluster 2012 following its IPO — zeroing in on its $58.58 high. Twitter,
which only recently went public, is seeing a much better result after its IPO,
up 57.6 percent and near its $73.60 high. Even companies left for dead by
investors at the start of 2013 are doing well. Daily deals site Groupon is up
more than 150 percent for the year and near its $12.76 high; meanwhile, gaming
company Zynga is up 74 percent, close to its $4.55 high. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131226/tech-stocks-hover-near-2013-highs-paving-way-
for-2014-ipos-like-alibaba-box-and-dropbox/feed/ 0 Egnyte Raises Almost $30
Million for International Expansion Plan
http://allthingsd.com/20131211/egnyte-raises-almost-30-million-for-
international-expansion-plan/ http://allthingsd.com/20131211/egnyte-raises-
almost-30-million-for-international-expansion-plan/#comments Wed, 11 Dec 2013
13:50:17 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=378093 Say what you will about the
explosion in cloud services intended to help companies share and collaborate
on files, but the demand doesn’t seem to be slowing down. Nor does interest
from investors. Last week, Box, the IPO-bound file-sharing giant raised $100
million at a $2 billion valuation. Now its smaller but equally enterprise-
focused rival Egnyte is out today with a new funding round of its own. Egnyte
announced this morning that it has raised $29.5 million in a Series D, with
investments from Northgate Capital Group, and new strategic partners, storage
giant Seagate Technology and telecom company CenturyLink. Existing backers
Google Ventures, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Polaris Partners also
participated. Another major storage vendor that the company declined to name
also participated in the funding round. The new funding brings Egnyte’s total
capital raised to just shy of $67 million. CEO Vineet Jain (pictured) told me
in an interview on Tuesday that the new funding will be used to cover a big
international expansion, and to make some strategic moves on the product
front. Where most companies in this space rely exclusively on the cloud,
Egnyte, based in Mountain View, Calif., offers a “best of both worlds”
approach. There’s a big block of files in a business that are too sensitive to
let them leave the corporate firewall, but which employees often want to
access from mobile devices while on the road. Egnyte’s answer to that is an
on-premise appliance that sits behind the firewall and controls access to
those files deemed sensitive. Less-sensitive files can go to the cloud. The
point is that you get the same file-sharing and syncing that you would with an
all-cloud service, but with an on-premise component added to speed things up
and keep things running, in the event that the cloud portion fails. It also
gives an added layer of control and security when needed. The company has been
on the move this year. Revenue has been doubling year on year for two years in
a row. In the fall, Egnyte used the headlines and concern about the
overzealous spying by the National Security Agency to tout a “PRISM
Protection” service, which surveys a corporate network and looks for instances
of employees using less-secure cloud services. It also comes with five Egnyte
licenses to try the service out. “This has given us a bit of a rocket ride,”
Jain told me. The company now has more than 40,000 customers and about 30
petabytes of data stored, with 20,000 of those on-premise appliances in
operation. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131211/egnyte-raises-almost-30-million-
for-international-expansion-plan/feed/ 0 Box Secures $100 Million Funding at
$2 Billion Valuation http://allthingsd.com/20131205/box-secures-100-million-
funding-at-2-billion-valuation/ http://allthingsd.com/20131205/box-
secures-100-million-funding-at-2-billion-valuation/#comments Fri, 06 Dec 2013
00:32:18 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=377151 Box Inc. has secured $100
million in funding at a valuation of about $2 billion, said chief executive
Aaron Levie, as new international investors plan to help the online storage
provider expand outside the U.S. The Los Altos, Calif., company plans to open
its first offices in Japan, Australia and Brazil in 2014, and invest heavily
in its European headquarters in London, said Mr. Levie. The funding round
included corporations in four markets, the CEO said: Itochu Technology
Ventures, Macnica Inc. and Mitsui & Co. in Japan; Telefónica S.A. in Europe
and Latin America; and Telstra Corp. in Australia. DST Global, Coatue and
previous Box investors also contributed to the round, Mr. Levie said. Read the
rest of this post on the original site » ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131205/box-secures-100-million-funding-at-2-billion-
valuation/feed/ 0 Fresh Off Rebranding Effort, Hightail Lands $34 Million in
New Funding http://allthingsd.com/20131119/fresh-off-rebranding-effort-
hightail-lands-34-million-in-new-funding/
http://allthingsd.com/20131119/fresh-off-rebranding-effort-hightail-
lands-34-million-in-new-funding/#comments Tue, 19 Nov 2013 16:45:51 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=373576 It has been just three months since the once
email-centric file-sharing service YouSendIt changed its name to Hightail, but
it sure feels like longer. When I spoke with him yesterday, CEO Brad
Garlinghouse felt the same way. It has just been that kind of year for the
company. A new mission brought with it a new name that’s intended to better
reflect everything the company can do. And now there are new investors, too.
Hightail said Tuesday it has raised a $34 million Series E led by Western
Digital Capital, the investment arm of Western Digital, the hard drive
manufacturer. Accolade Partners is also a new investor. Previous investors
Alloy Ventures, Sevin Rosen, Emergence Capital, Adams Street Partners and
Sigma Partners also participated. It’s the first new funding for Hightail
since 2010, when it raised $15 million in a D round, and it brings its total
capital raised to nearly $83 million. During most of that time, the company
hasn’t been hurting for money, running on cash from its operations. So how has
business been since the name change? “Candidly, we were very apprehensive
about the change. But within a month we saw traffic and activity up,”
Garlinghouse told AllThingsD. One reason for the new funding is expansion in
international markets. Hightail recently opened offices in London and in
Australia, and has been working furiously to localize its service for markets
in Europe. In just the last month it has completed new versions in German,
Spanish and Italian. Hightail has also been quietly acquisitive. In September
it acquired adeptCloud, a file-sharing and collaboration outfit that focuses
on privacy. “They do some very clever things around key management and
document control and watermarking,” Garlinghouse said. “There’s a lot more
interest in privacy now. It’s the Edward Snowden effect.” That’s on top of
Found, a cloud-searching service Hightail acquired in January. In its previous
incarnation, YouSendIt, Hightail had built up a trusted brand name. It boasted
a user base of 43 million people — free and paid combined — using its service
in 193 countries and pretty much all of the Fortune 500. File sharing is a
tough space in which to compete. DropBox, Box and Microsoft’s SkyDrive are all
fighting for the same enterprise users that Hightail is going after. But
Garlinghouse’s hope is that Hightail’s historic relationship with a lot of
those same corporate users will turn out to be an advantage. There’s also more
to it than storage. Garlinghouse is hoping that large companies will pay for
enhanced services like access control, extra security and activity logs.
“Anyone can offer file storage in the cloud,” he said. “Our way of
differentiating is what you can do with those files after you’ve uploaded them
in the cloud.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131119/fresh-off-rebranding-effort-
hightail-lands-34-million-in-new-funding/feed/ 0 Box Has Picked Its Bankers
for Its IPO Next Year http://allthingsd.com/20131108/box-has-picked-its-
bankers-for-its-ipo-next-year/ http://allthingsd.com/20131108/box-has-picked-
its-bankers-for-its-ipo-next-year/#comments Fri, 08 Nov 2013 21:47:55 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=371526 If you haven’t had enough of high profile tech
IPOs, there’s word today that another is gaining steam for sometime in 2014,
this one in the enterprise cloud computing space. Box, the fast-growing
enterprise cloud computing company that has raised a combined $312 million
from venture capitalists and private equity investors, has completed its bake-
off of bankers, according to Reuters, and is aiming to raise $500 million in
an initial public offering in early 2014. Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and
J.P. Morgan Chase will lead the offering. Box has been hitting all the
stations of the cross on its way to an IPO. Earlier this year, CEO Aaron Levie
(pictured here from his appearance at D: All Things Digital in May) confirmed
to AllThingsD that the company is on track to exceed $100 million in revenue
this year. And while he also admitted that Box’s burn rate is typically in the
“seven figure per month” range, Levie states that the company’s biggest
expense is the sales and marketing people who can, as he put it, “get
enterprise deals done.” In January, Levie predicted that Box would have 1,000
employees by the end of 2013, and I just heard from a source today who said
that, as of October, it was already north of 900. At the time, he said that
“most” of the $150 million the company had raised in a huge Series E led by
the private equity firm General Atlantic was still in the bank. Box first
announced it had raised $125 million in the summer of 2012. That round was
said to value the company at $1.2 billion. Investors seemed to really like
Box, because by January that same round of funding had swelled to $150
million. Before that it raised $81 million in a 2011 strategic round that
included Salesforce.com and SAP Ventures. Levie didn’t immediately answer an
email, and other sources at the company were not commenting in the wake of the
Reuters story. Levie publicly said earlier this year that a Box IPO was likely
for 2014, and would follow a series of moves to expand its sales footprint
globally. Its first move was to add a sales office in London to go after
European business. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131108/box-has-picked-its-
bankers-for-its-ipo-next-year/feed/ 0 The Big Email Opportunity
http://allthingsd.com/20131105/the-big-email-opportunity/
http://allthingsd.com/20131105/the-big-email-opportunity/#comments Tue, 05 Nov
2013 19:30:51 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=370438 Image copyright Jane
KellyIn a storm of information technology change, email is a familiar tool.
What began as a simple text messaging tool has established itself as the very
hub of the typical employee’s work life. Currently, users exchange 154 billion
messages a day, and this number continues to grow. We use it for document
sharing, task management, collaboration and archiving. It is the center of
most collaboration and our communication home, and we would be lost without
it. However, the decades-old enterprise email model to which users are so
firmly wedded is cracking. Email generates a massive amount of data, and new
mobile and social structures are exacerbating this issue. We need a new email
platform that is optimized for these new realities. Volume Compounded by
Social Complexities Email floods the enterprise with unstructured data.
Productivity takes a major hit as workers sift through a growing volume of
email looking for priority items. Meanwhile, on the back end, email servers
have morphed into specialized databases to accommodate “Big Email” data. This
was challenge enough to enterprise IT; now it is compounded by the blurring of
email and social media communications channels. On the front end, users are
demanding a better and more tailored user experience through their
smartphones. We need a next-generation email platform that will help users
automatically filter, organize and enhance their email and social data. It
would seamlessly connect to social networks, file sharing services and
enterprise applications to provide more information at users’ fingertips more
quickly. It would include “email intelligence” that can discern different
types of content and act on it, prioritizing, calendaring, filing and helping
the user respond more quickly and automatically. It would also be able to add
context to email by filtering and pulling data from social sources and past
interactions. An email platform that succeeds at this will enable greater
productivity because people will be able to respond faster with better
information. The Mobile Challenge No amount of intelligence and automation
will ensure the success of a next-generation email solution if it is not
optimized for mobile access. Smartphones and other mobile devices now dominate
network access. Email on mobile phones has become the concentration point of
knowledge workers’ attention. The mobile disruption is creating a disconnect
between users’ smartphones and on-premise Big Email data. External mobile
access of these data stores is simply impractical. We need an email platform
that will enable thin mobile clients to search and access cloud-based and on-
premise data. This is no easy feat, given the expanding volume of data and its
disparate locations. We Need a Platform, Not a Feature We have been hearing
about “next-generation email” for years, but what has emerged is a variety of
point solutions focusing on specific next-generation features or collaboration
solutions trying to replace email altogether. For example: Email clients such
as Postbox, ZeroMail, TipBit and Zimbra provide fast interfaces that integrate
with social networks and other cloud-based applications and data. Social media
integration capabilities that pull contact information from social networks
into email are found in products such as Xobni (owned by Yahoo), Rapportive
(now owned by LinkedIn), and LinkedIn’s new mobile app, LinkedIn Intro, a
feature that integrates with people’s iPhone Mail apps to display user profile
information. Collaboration applications that integrate with email systems or
replace email to facilitate group projects, customer support, sales and other
activities include GrexIt, Rizzoma and Asana. Filtering and prioritization
tools in such products as Alto Mail (developed by AOL), Handle and EmailTray
address the volume of email by automating message prioritization and inbox
organization. Other interesting email enhancements include smart calendar
assistants and productivity apps like Baydin’s Boomerang Calendar, and
TempoAI’s smart calendar. Many of these applications are following the same
enterprise adoption pattern established by the first PCs, WiFi networks and
handheld devices. They slip in the back door, doing an end-run around
corporate approval and IT budgets, creating major security risks and offering
themselves as inexpensive or free cloud-based productivity enhancements. Yet
many of the benefits are limited to specific email features. They don’t
comprise a comprehensive new Big Email platform that can serve as a new work
activity hub and replace the old email paradigm. If these solutions won’t do,
then what are the criteria? To step into the role of the traditional email
hub, a new platform must intelligently combine many of the solutions mentioned
above. Specifically, this platform will need: A fast and lightweight mobile
client functioning as a single user interface for all hub activities. Better
and more-automated filtering, searching and archiving capabilities. Seamless
integration with social networks (Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter), so users
don’t have to switch constantly between interfaces. Seamless integration with
file sharing services (Dropbox and Box). One user interface for email,
calendaring and task management. Integration to existing mail servers of
choice is a must, and not just Gmail and Yahoo, but also Microsoft Exchange
for enterprise users. For the enterprise it must be secure and manageable by
IT. There is a major opportunity for the entrepreneur who dares to create a
more automated, integrated and streamlined email platform. Remember: Email is
our filing system, our hub for collaboration and task management and
calendaring. It is the focal part of our work lives and we check into it
constantly. We cling to it. (None of the companies mentioned here are in NVP’s
portfolio.) Robert Abbott joined NVP in 1998 and is focused on a wide variety
of investment categories including mobile, cloud & IT infrastructure. His
current investments and board seats include Act-On Software, ClariPhy,
ClearDATA, Elemental, mBlox and Zenverge. He holds a bachelor of science and a
master of science in electrical engineering and an MBA, all from Stanford
University. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131105/the-big-email-opportunity/feed/
0 Jive and Okta Team Up in the Cloud http://allthingsd.com/20131017/jive-and-
okta-team-up-in-the-cloud/ http://allthingsd.com/20131017/jive-and-okta-team-
up-in-the-cloud/#comments Thu, 17 Oct 2013 16:41:31 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=366334 Jive, the social enterprise and collaboration
software company, and Okta, the cloud-based identity management outfit, said
today that they’ve formed a strategic alliance to integrate their platforms.
What this means is that if you’re a Jive customer, you can start using Okta’s
wide-ranging single-sign-on and identity-management service with it. From
there, it’s probably a pretty easy pivot toward using it across all your other
cloud and on-premise applications. Groupon was named as an early customer. By
my count, this is the second such strategic integration for Jive. The last I
can remember is one announced in April with Box, the fast-growing enterprise
file-sharing and collaboration platform. It’s another step in building what
they call the “new cloud stack,” and also an interesting move on the
chessboard vis-a-vis other cloud companies, namely Salesforce.com. Salesforce,
the biggest cloud software company by revenue, has been agitating both Jive
and Okta. Salesforce has been competing against Jive for some time,
positioning its Chatter social collaboration app against Jive and Microsoft-
owned Yammer. And, two days ago, Salesforce launched its Identity product,
which is clearly aimed at competing with Okta. Okta CEO Todd McKinnon, a
former Salesforce exec, has said in the past how he likes having his old
employer as a competitor. And, by the looks of things — a $27 million Series D
round of funding being one of those things — business at Okta is about as
strong as it could be. Not to get all “Game of Thrones” about it, but
Salesforce itself did a big platform integration with Oracle, as their
respective CEOs went public with something of a summer bromance in June. I’m
guessing that you’ll see more of these alliances and cross-alliances drawn in
the coming months. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131017/jive-and-okta-team-up-
in-the-cloud/feed/ 0 The Rented Business: The Shareconomy Hits IT
Infrastructure http://allthingsd.com/20131011/the-rented-business-the-
shareconomy-hits-it-infrastructure/ http://allthingsd.com/20131011/the-rented-
business-the-shareconomy-hits-it-infrastructure/#comments Fri, 11 Oct 2013
22:01:56 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=364927 Image copyright Andy Dean
PhotographyWe’ve entered a multi-tenant economy. People are renting everything
from cars through ZipCar, designer dresses via Rent the Runway and online
accounting software from Xero. Even renting vacation homes through VRBO versus
staying in a hotel is a popular option for consumers. So, why rent? It can be
less expensive upfront, extensible, convenient and quickly disposable. As this
trend continues to infiltrate the workplace, the perks are becoming a reality
across major business operations — IT in particular. According to Gartner,
infrastructure as a service (IaaS), including cloud compute, storage and print
services, continued as the fastest-growing segment of the cloud computing
market, growing 42.4 percent in 2012 to $6.1 billion and expected to grow 47.3
percent in 2013 to $9 billion. In the traditional “own” market, with
enterprise resource planning being an example, your return on investment could
take years to pay back when factoring in the consulting fees, the installation
service and the cost of the first year’s maintenance. In many cases, making
these decisions was difficult for the IT organization, and during these times,
decisions came with great political risk to one’s career. Also, if you look at
the U.S. economy, the pace of innovation seems to be extremely high,
especially with the invention of cloud computing. Where hiring has been
lackluster, information technology has been a major beneficiary of this Great
Recession. Companies have had to embrace flexibility, dynamism and tenacity —
or falter. They now need to demonstrate ROI within the first six months, not
the first three years. Legacy infrastructure can’t keep up with multi-tenant,
“instant on” and “instant off” IT, where Capex is minimal and ROI is near-
term. Thanks to the power of the cloud, businesses can share IT resources
across platforms and there is a diminishing need to install complex, expensive
boxes and complex software applications that need to be housed and maintained.
As-a-service companies are cropping up all over, providing businesses with
state-of-the-art services at a fraction of the upfront costs of legacy
providers. Businesses appear to be willing to accept fewer features for the
sake of simplicity and a materially shorter ROI/instant gratification. A few
startups that are changing the way we do business: Box hosts file sharing and
content management in the cloud, diminishing the need for in-house file
storage for people on the go. Twilio has a platform that enables companies to
develop custom communication systems without complex telecom hardware. Through
the platform and global cloud API, phones, VoIP and messaging can be embedded
into Web, desktop and mobile software. With Pertino, all you need is an
Internet connection to build a business-class network that connects people
everywhere with the IT resources they need from any location. Blue Jeans
Network offers an interconnected video collaboration network in the cloud.
Before Blue Jeans, traditional video conferencing and collaboration methods
were complex, offered almost no interoperability and left the participants at
the mercy of the physical location of the device. SendGrid moves email
infrastructure to the cloud, relieving businesses of the cost and complexity
of maintaining custom email systems. Zscaler provides an in-the-cloud security
service for enterprise mobility, cloud applications and social media. These
technologies give businesses the option to rent solutions rather than purchase
them. Accounting software, file storage and email used to be major systems
requiring full IT support and server closets. Now they can be deployed with
practically a credit card. This ability to enable and pivot on a dime gives
organizations the opportunity to deploy mission-critical services without
worrying about making multi-year commitments and massive upfront cash.
Likewise, it provides options and the ability to switch services as their
business needs change. Companies are adopting these shared economy services in
droves because they give them flexibility. Thus, the “rented business” has
become a reality: You pay for what you need, and aren’t stuck with what you
don’t down the line. Disclosure: Pertino and Blue Jeans Network are both
Norwest Venture Partners portfolio companies. Matthew Howard is a managing
partner at Norwest Venture Partners. Matt has appeared on the Forbes Midas
List as a top 100 investor for three years. He currently serves on the boards
of Avere Systems, Bitglass, Blue Jeans Network, ConteXtream, Exablox, Hadapt,
MobileIron and Pertino Networks. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131011/the-
rented-business-the-shareconomy-hits-it-infrastructure/feed/ 0 SAP Ventures
Raises $1.1 Billion in Two New VC Funds http://allthingsd.com/20131002/sap-
ventures-raises-1-1-billion-in-two-new-vc-funds/
http://allthingsd.com/20131002/sap-ventures-raises-1-1-billion-in-two-new-vc-
funds/#comments Wed, 02 Oct 2013 13:42:45 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=362373 Add SAP Ventures to the list of tech-focused
venture capital firms you should probably be paying attention to. The company
said today that it has raised nearly $1.1 billion in two funds over the last
year. The latest to close is SAP Ventures Fund II, a $650 million fund aimed
at direct investments in up-and-coming tech companies. Nino Marakovic, the
firm’s CEO and managing director, told me that the firm is looking for
companies that “have established market presences that are growing very fast,
and which we can help make into industry leaders.” Marakovic told me yesterday
that it’s not simply an investment vehicle for SAP, comparable to, say, Intel
Capital, the German software giant with which it is affiliated. It’s
technically independent; it’s just that SAP is its sole limited partner and
external investor. The new fund, when combined with its $405 million SAP HANA
Real Time Fund, and its original $353 million SAP Ventures Fund I, brings the
total assets under management to $1.4 billion. The HANA Real Time Fund, which
is named for the HANA cloud computing product that SAP sells (I talked with
SAP co-CEO Bill McDermott about it earlier this year), doesn’t take direct
investments, but instead places its funds with existing early-stage VC firms
around the world. So far, the fund has made 11 different investments in funds
based in Israel, Europe, the U.S. and China. “The idea there is to partner
with those funds and have them invest in early-stage companies,” Marakovic
said. “Part of that is to help us get a pipeline of companies to invest in
directly later. Part of it is to create a huge network of affiliated VCs we
can tap for domain or geographic expertise for our own investment activities.
Also, we want to engage with these companies at an early stage and introduce
them to new technologies coming out of SAP.” The firm has a fairly solid
portfolio already. Its investments include Box, the fast-growing enterprise
cloud company; DocuSign, the electronic signature company; and Fitbit, the
wearable health-gadget company. It also invested in LinkedIn and newly public
Violin Memory. Other portfolio companies, like ExactTarget and ScaleIO, have
been acquired. The other big news is that the firm is staffing up its
business-development team. It plans to hire a 10-person team that will be
based around the world. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131002/sap-ventures-
raises-1-1-billion-in-two-new-vc-funds/feed/ 0 Egnyte Adds PRISM Protection to
Its Enterprise Hybrid Cloud Service http://allthingsd.com/20130925/egnyte-
adds-prism-protection-to-its-enterprise-hybrid-cloud-service/
http://allthingsd.com/20130925/egnyte-adds-prism-protection-to-its-enterprise-
hybrid-cloud-service/#comments Wed, 25 Sep 2013 20:04:30 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=360795 While Egnyte does enterprise-focused file
sharing and collaboration — comparable in some aspects to other cloud
companies like, for instance, Box — it does it in a way that combines the best
aspects of access to the cloud with the best aspects of running your own
systems on premise. In short, it’s a hybrid. Or as CEO Vineet Jain likes to
say: “The cloud is not enough.” As convenient as the cloud can be, there’s a
lot of risk associated with letting sensitive files go outside the corporate
firewall and reside on servers operated by someone else. Those files are often
the most sensitive things a company has: Lists of customers, deal documents,
design drawings. The fundamental difference Egnyte touts is that you get the
same file-sharing and syncing that you would with an all-cloud service, but
with an on-premise component added to speed things up and keep running in the
event that the cloud portion fails. Today Egnyte launched a new service it
calls Storage Connect. The idea is that all those sensitive files can be as
readily shared as they would be on a cloud service, but they never leave the
corporate network. They’re accessible from an iPad or a smartphone or any
computer, but protected. Corporate IT admins can also maintain a degree of
control, by setting access and sharing credentials. “We recognized that about
90 percent of a company’s files are still held behind the firewall,” Jain told
me today. “Not everything belongs in the cloud, and not everything belongs on-
premise.” He went on to characterize three types of files: Green, yellow and
red. Green files are the ones that can be readily shared on the cloud because
if they were compromised it would be no big deal. Yellow files are the ones
that can only be shared between employees on a limited basis, and red files
are the sensitive ones that should really stay behind the firewall. The idea
with Storage Connect is make them all readily as shareable in a single
application environment, irrespective of where they happen to be physically
stored. Alongside Storage Connect, the company announced what it calls its
PRISM Protection program. Riding on the wave of anxiety about the National
Security Agency and its recently revealed surveillance activities, the program
surveys and detects cases where employees are using less secure cloud service
to share documents and files that might open up the possibility of government
monitoring. The service includes a free assessment and five free licenses to
Egnyte, and a plan to migrate whatever sharing services are in place to
Egnyte. Cloud services are subject to government disclosure orders. Companies
like Microsoft, Facebook, Google and others are routinely hit with government
requests under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and while they often
try to push back against them, the law as written requires them to comply. The
way Egnyte sees it, if the files never reside anywhere but your own
infrastructure, then the government will have to ask you directly if it wants
to see something. It’s not an impermeable argument, but logically sound to a
point. Either way, since the announcement today, signups for Egnyte have
ticked up, Jain said. When I last checked in with Jain, Egnyte had just raised
$10 million from Kleiner Perkins. Since then it has raised another $16 million
from Google Ventures. Jain said that Egnyte, one of the quieter players in the
cloud file-sharing business, has 33,000 enterprise customers and more than 1.2
million individual users, and that bookings for the year are on track to grow
by 3.5 times over 2012. As he put it: “We’re in the right place at the right
time, with something that companies want.” Indeed. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130925/egnyte-adds-prism-protection-to-its-enterprise-
hybrid-cloud-service/feed/ 0 Long Known for Storing and Sharing, Box Aims to
Be More About Doing http://allthingsd.com/20130916/long-known-for-storing-and-
sharing-box-aims-to-be-more-about-doing/ http://allthingsd.com/20130916/long-
known-for-storing-and-sharing-box-aims-to-be-more-about-doing/#comments Mon,
16 Sep 2013 22:40:47 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=358561 It’s becoming ever
less accurate to refer to the cloud company Box as a company focused on
enterprise file storage. Lately people have been adding the phrase “and
collaboration” to their description of the company because it speaks a little
more to the wider ambitions of what Box aims to do. Today that got a little
clearer when the company announced Box Notes, a new lightweight text editing
tool that is being added to the Box service. While it has often been talked
about in the same breath as Dropbox, the consumer-focused file storage service
in the cloud, IPO-bound Box is starting to look a lot more like Google Docs
every day. That’s probably no accident. Last year, it hired Sam Schillace, the
founder of Writely, the Web-based word processor that eventually became the
foundation for what we now call Google Docs or Google Apps. And earlier this
year, Box acquired Crocodoc, a document-sharing company that uses HTML to
power a sharing service that’s a little like Scribd and DocStoc. CEO Aaron
Levie has been talking a lot these days about how Box wants to be the “content
layer” in the cloud. Today, in advance of his keynote address at the company’s
BoxWorks conference, he tweeted about new tools versus old tools. What it all
means is that Box has bigger aims than most people initially realized. Storage
and sharing isn’t enough. Box’s aim now appears to be on crafting a new set of
tools backed by that cloud storage infrastructure. It’s now less about a place
to put stuff and more about becoming a place to do things with that stuff.
That’s going to make its market opportunity and competitive landscape a lot
more interesting. At the start of every tech cycle we try and use old tools to
work in new ways. We stumble briefly, then we just build the new tools. —
Aaron Levie (@levie) September 16, 2013 ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130916/long-known-for-storing-and-sharing-box-aims-to-
be-more-about-doing/feed/ 0 Salesforce Branches Out Into Enterprise File-
Sharing http://allthingsd.com/20130905/salesforce-branches-out-into-
enterprise-file-sharing/ http://allthingsd.com/20130905/salesforce-branches-
out-into-enterprise-file-sharing/#comments Thu, 05 Sep 2013 19:53:45 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=356332 Just what the world needs: Another way to
share corporate files. Chalk that one up to Salesforce.com, which today
announced Salesforce Files, touted as a new way for its customers to
collaborate on whatever files they happen to be using. It used to be called
Chatterbox — CEO Marc Benioff first disclosed it about a year ago — and it was
largely seen as a potential competitor to Box, the enterprise-focused cloud
file-sharing and collaboration service in which Salesforce is an investor.
Talk about awkward. Anyway, Chatterbox is now called Salesforce Files, and
since files are central to a business, whether Word documents, spreadsheets,
presentation decks or pretty much anything else, they get stored all over the
place. Sometimes they’re on a PC hard drive, or sometimes they’re in one of a
long list of cloud services. When you need them, you either have to go through
the trouble of tracking them down or creating new ones, and that’s both
irritating and inefficient. The point of Salesforce Files, the company said,
is to get those files linked up with the internal business processes like
marketing and sales and the rest. And it works with Box, Google Drive and
Microsoft’s SharePoint. Salesforce is hoping to get the sharing unified within
a single trusted environment, rather than have important files scattered all
over the place. The service is currently in a private beta-testing period. No
word yet on when it will be generally available. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130905/salesforce-branches-out-into-enterprise-file-
sharing/feed/ 0 Box Names Former Windows Head Sinofsky as Adviser
http://allthingsd.com/20130829/box-names-former-windows-head-sinofsky-as-
adviser/ http://allthingsd.com/20130829/box-names-former-windows-head-
sinofsky-as-adviser/#comments Thu, 29 Aug 2013 17:45:38 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=354654 Box, the fast-growing enterprise cloud-
computing company, said today that it had named Steven Sinofsky, the former
head of Microsoft’s Windows business, as an adviser. The announcement came in
a corporate blog post from CEO Aaron Levie. Sinofsky left Microsoft in
November, and earlier this month joined the venture capital firm Andreessen
Horowitz as a board partner. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130829/box-names-
former-windows-head-sinofsky-as-adviser/feed/ 0 AllThingsD's Week in Review: A
New, New Microsoft, and a $23.5 Billion iPhone Bill for Verizon
http://allthingsd.com/20130713/allthingsds-week-in-review-a-new-new-microsoft-
and-a-23-5-billion-iphone-bill-for-verizon/
http://allthingsd.com/20130713/allthingsds-week-in-review-a-new-new-microsoft-
and-a-23-5-billion-iphone-bill-for-verizon/#comments Sat, 13 Jul 2013 17:59:53
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=341647 In case you missed anything, here’s a
quick roundup of the news that powered AllThingsD this week: Aiming for
“Functional Coherence,” Mulling a Different P&L; and With Advice From Ford
CEO, Microsoft Restructuring Set for Thursday (and then, sure enough, on
Thursday, Microsoft announced its realignment strategy: “One Microsoft”). Best
Buy Launching Two-Day iPad Trade-In Promo Here’s Microsoft’s New Strategy
Essay and Reorg Announcement (Memos) FCC Approves SoftBank Takeover of Sprint,
Clearwire Are 41 Million Reasons Enough to Make Smartphone Buyers Choose
Nokia? Verizon May Need to Sell $23.5 Billion Worth of iPhones by End of the
Year It Was All Yellow: Nokia Lumia 1020 Event in Photos Samsung Shows Off
Future of Wearables and Phone Displays in Concept Video Amazon Quietly Tests
Streaming Flash Videos to Kindle Fire Owners In New Challenge to Dropbox and
Box, YouSendIt Morphs Into Hightail To stay on top of the latest, follow
AllThingsD on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to our daily email
newsletter. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130713/allthingsds-week-in-review-a-
new-new-microsoft-and-a-23-5-billion-iphone-bill-for-verizon/feed/ 0 In New
Challenge to Dropbox and Box, YouSendIt Morphs Into Hightail
http://allthingsd.com/20130710/in-new-challenge-to-dropbox-and-box-yousendit-
morphs-into-hightail/ http://allthingsd.com/20130710/in-new-challenge-to-
dropbox-and-box-yousendit-morphs-into-hightail/#comments Wed, 10 Jul 2013
11:47:53 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=340425 It may have been awhile since
you’ve thought about YouSendIt, the cloud-based file-sharing service that has
been around since the middle of the last decade. For all that time, it has
been best known for coming in handy when you had to send someone an email
attachment that was too big for the company email server, or even for Gmail.
But time has moved on, and now there are so many file-sharing services in the
cloud — Dropbox, Box, Google Drive and the like — that sending large
attachments has kind of become beside the point. YouSendIt has been humming
along quietly, having carved out an early and loyal niche of business users. A
trusted brand name, it has 43 million people — free and paid — using it around
the world, in 193 countries. And, of course, in that time, its service has
grown far beyond the paradigm of “sending large attachments,” but the name
sort of places fences around how you’re inclined to think about it. “The name
constrained our product breadth,” CEO Brad Garlinghouse told me. “It didn’t
indicate our current product breadth, let alone where we were headed.” So a
new name was created, with a little help from Siegel+Gale, and is part of a
broader shake-up of the company’s business that Garlinghouse has been working
on since taking over as CEO last year. He’s a former senior VP at Yahoo, where
his portfolio included Yahoo Mail and its other communications products. He
was also president of consumer applications at AOL. Today, YouSendIt is
changing its name to Hightail, and is rebranding itself as more of a broad-
based file-sharing and collaboration service. It’s also throwing down the
gauntlet to other services in the space: For $15.99 a month, it’s offering
unlimited file storage. “The name gives us a chance to differentiate in the
marketplace,” Garlinghouse said. “There are a lot of companies with ‘box’ or
‘sync’ or ‘drive’ in their name. There’s a lot of blue logos and names in this
space. It’s starting to get pretty homogenous.” DropBox and Box? He’s looking
at you. The business goes well beyond storage, Garlinghouse said, though the
fact is that the others see it in broader terms, as well. Other services he
said, charge tiered pricing for more capacity. “Over the long term that’s not
a great business,” he said. “Our view is that we should try to be different
from the others around the application, around what you can do with your
files.” Among the features the company has added over the years are digital
signatures, annotation, management, and notification when a recipient has seen
a document they’ve been sent. The relaunch includes a new mobile presence,
including apps on Apple’s iPhone and iPad, plus Android phones and tablets and
Windows Phone 8. That’s on top of existing desktop apps for Windows and Mac,
plus plugins for Microsoft Outlook and Mozilla’s Thunderbird email client. And
there are bigger plans. Earlier this year, YouSendIt acquired Found, a company
that makes a desktop application on the Mac that unifies several cloud storage
services into a single environment. It supports services like Google’s Gmail,
Evernote, Google Drive, Dropbox and Microsoft’s SkyDrive, and makes files
stored in them searchable within a single unified interface. “As there are
more cloud services, you end up with stuff everywhere, and it’s hard to find,”
Garlinghouse said. Expect more developments on that front later this year. And
say what you will about whether this rebranding effort will work — the fact is
that the company is restarting itself from a fairly strong position. It raised
about $50 million in venture capital funding over five years, but its last
round, a Series D, was in early 2010. Garlinghouse said he doesn’t expect to
be raising money anytime soon. “We’re not quite cash-flow positive, but we’ve
been judicious in our spending,” he said. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130710/in-new-challenge-to-dropbox-and-box-yousendit-
morphs-into-hightail/feed/ 0 Hardly Workin'
http://allthingsd.com/20130702/hardly-workin/
http://allthingsd.com/20130702/hardly-workin/#comments Wed, 03 Jul 2013
06:59:52 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=338873 Hands down, Andrew Mason’s
record is one of the best business-focused rock albums out right now. — Box
CEO Aaron Levie, tweeting about former Groupon CEO Andrew Mason’s latest
project ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130702/hardly-workin/feed/ 0 They Take Up
More Room on Your Desktop http://allthingsd.com/20130619/they-take-up-more-
room-on-your-desktop/ http://allthingsd.com/20130619/they-take-up-more-room-
on-your-desktop/#comments Thu, 20 Jun 2013 06:59:13 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=334968 3D printers are the new Tumblr. — Aaron Levie,
via Twitter ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130619/they-take-up-more-room-on-your-
desktop/feed/ 0 Electric Cars, Wearable Computing and TV Disruption -- 10
Things You Missed During the First Two Days of D11
http://allthingsd.com/20130530/electric-cars-wearable-computing-and-tv-
disruption-10-things-you-missed-during-the-first-two-days-of-d11/
http://allthingsd.com/20130530/electric-cars-wearable-computing-and-tv-
disruption-10-things-you-missed-during-the-first-two-days-of-d11/#comments
Thu, 30 May 2013 11:00:34 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=327380 Asa Mathat /
D: All Things Digital As always, D11 is proving to be a diverse, star-studded
tour through the “all things digital” that give this site its name. It kicked
off Tuesday evening with Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg’s interview of Apple
CEO Tim Cook, and carried right on into Wednesday with onstage appearances
from the likes of Mary Meeker, Sheryl Sandberg, Dick Costolo, Aaron Levie,
Elon Musk and many more. We understand that those of you who aren’t with us in
Rancho Palos Verdes may have jobs where they expect you to do more than read
AllThingsD all day. Please accept, as a public service, this rundown of 10 of
the day’s top highlights. Asked about the potential of wearable computing,
Cook said it could be “profound” and “interesting,” but that the form factor
of eyewear and smart watches limit their “broad-range appeal.” Young people
don’t wear watches, he said, because they already use their phones to check
the time (among quite a few other things). In her second annual Internet
trends presentation at D, Mary Meeker from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
said photo uploads in 2013 are poised to be double what they were in 2012. She
also predicted that the next cycle of technology will encompass “wearables,
drivables, flyables and scanables.” Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg talked about
both “Lean In” — noting that employees who call women “bossy” should be asked
if they would use the same word to describe a man doing the same things — and
Facebook’s mobile plans. She said the company is “unequivocally” stronger
post-IPO. Disney Parks chairman Tom Staggs demoed the MagicBand wristbands
that will soon replace paper tickets, and which can also open hotel rooms, pay
for food and merchandise and interact with park attractions. Staggs also
described how the MagicBand could “unlock more special things” like
personalized greetings from Mickey Mouse & Co. Box CEO Aaron Levie noted that
enterprise software is judged by its consumer-friendliness, even though it
doesn’t need to be made for consumers. IAC Chairman Barry Diller said the
three companies poised to disrupt TV are Apple, Amazon and Microsoft. “It’s a
market that is ripe,” he said. Disney/ABC Television Group President Anne
Sweeney said she thinks Aereo is “wrong … illegal … and opportunistic piracy.”
Sweeney and ABC Family’s I. Marlene King discussed how shows like “Pretty
Little Liars” tap into the power of live TV discussion on social media
services like Twitter. Ben Silbermann said the company he founded, Pinterest,
does not currently make money and is still trying to figure out a path to that
kind of important goal. He also said the label “mobile companies” will one day
seem parochial because consumers will expect everything to be available on all
platforms. Motorola Mobility’s Dennis Woodside announced the Moto X, a
smartphone that the company plans to build in the United States. His colleague
and former DARPA head Regina Dugan showed off smart body technology like an
electronic tattoo and an identity-authenticating swallowable pill Tesla Motors
CEO Elon Musk announced — one day early — that the company plans to triple the
coverage area of its faster electric car Superchargers by the end of June, and
release a car in the $30,000-$35,000 range within “three to four years.” These
10 blurbs only scratch the surface, though. For more, please check out our
full list of stories from D: All Things Digital. Full D11 Conference Coverage
]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130530/electric-cars-wearable-computing-and-tv-
disruption-10-things-you-missed-during-the-first-two-days-of-d11/feed/ 0
KatieCam: Outside the Box With Aaron Levie (Video)
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/katiecam-thinks-outside-the-box-before-he-was-
in-enterprise-aaron-levie-was-a-magician/
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/katiecam-thinks-outside-the-box-before-he-was-
in-enterprise-aaron-levie-was-a-magician/#comments Thu, 30 May 2013 00:54:48
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=327004 With Cisco’s John Chambers, Box co-
founder and CEO Aaron Levie was half of a doubleheader onstage at D11. But
like Chambers, he got some one-on-one time with AllThingsD’s Katie Boehret
after their interview ended. In this video, he tells Katie about his
adventures as a child magician. Full D11 Conference Coverage ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/katiecam-thinks-outside-the-box-before-he-was-
in-enterprise-aaron-levie-was-a-magician/feed/ 0 Cisco's John Chambers and
Box's Aaron Levie: The Full D11 Interview (Video)
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/ciscos-john-chambers-and-boxs-aaron-levie-the-
full-d11-interview-video/ http://allthingsd.com/20130529/ciscos-john-chambers-
and-boxs-aaron-levie-the-full-d11-interview-video/#comments Wed, 29 May 2013
21:43:28 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=326618 When you first consider it,
Cisco Systems CEO John Chambers and Box CEO Aaron Levie seem more likely to
view technology trends shaping their businesses quite differently. Chambers,
after all, is one of the industry’s longest-serving senior executives and
would at first seem to represent the established way of doing things. That
establishment appears to be the very target that Levie, the young head of the
up-and-coming cloud computing company Box, would like to disrupt. But it turns
out that they see the world of enterprise information technology in
surprisingly similar ways. Changes coming from cloud computing and
improvements in networking are creating new opportunities for both companies,
and they’re also talking about partnering. Below, video of their joint
appearance at D: All Things Digital. Full D11 Conference Coverage ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/ciscos-john-chambers-and-boxs-aaron-levie-the-
full-d11-interview-video/feed/ 0 Box On Track to Book More Than $100 Million
in Sales This Year, CEO Levie Says http://allthingsd.com/20130529/box-on-
track-to-book-more-than-100-million-in-sales-this-year-ceo-levie-says/
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/box-on-track-to-book-more-than-100-million-in-
sales-this-year-ceo-levie-says/#comments Wed, 29 May 2013 21:13:19 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=326703 Box CEO Aaron Levie was in a chatty mood over
lunch following his appearance at D: All Things Digital with Cisco Systems CEO
John Chambers earlier today. With Box quickly turning into one of the most
anticipated IPOs expected next year, there are a lot of questions about the
enterprise cloud company’s financial picture. So I caught him on the buffet
line and peppered him with a few questions. Levie told me that Box is on track
to book more than $100 million in revenue this year. And it’s not hurting for
cash. Box still has most — but not all — of the $150 million it raised in a
series E round of funding earlier this year still in the bank. That round was
led by private equity firm General Atlantic and was first announced at $125
million last summer, but grew to $150 million by January. I’d heard recently
from an industry source that Box is burning through cash at a rate of about $8
million per month. Levie wouldn’t confirm a specific number, but said Box’s
burn rate is easily “seven figures per month” and tends to rise and fall
depending on what’s going on at the company month to month. What’s Box’s
biggest expense? Surprisingly, not infrastructure and IT gear, despite the
fact that it has been in the past: Now it’s sales and marketing. “I need to
hire sales teams that can get enterprise deals done,” Levie said. The company
has recently been hiring aggressively and expanding into Europe. It also
opened a sales office in London recently, taking advantage of declining IT
budgets at companies on that continent by offering them cost-saving storage
and collaboration services in the cloud. I had wondered during his time
onstage with Chambers whether Box buys gear from Cisco. It does: Routers and
switches mostly, but not Cisco’s Unified Computing System that combines
servers with storage and networking. At least not yet, Levie told me. Most of
Box’s servers come from Dell, he said. “They’ve perfected the way of ordering
100 servers at a time,” he said. When asked whether he buys servers from
Hewlett-Packard — which, like Box, is based in Palo Alto, Calif. — he said
only, “No comment.” Who knows what that means? But one thing is certain: Box
was at least part of the reason that Dell grew its unit sales of servers by
more than 2 percent in the first quarter of the year, according to the latest
look at server sales by the market research firm Gartner, whose findings were
published today. Confirming preliminary numbers that Dell himself was bragging
about publicly weeks ago, HP’s unit sales fell by more than 15 percent. Its
share of the market, which still leads the world, stood at 24.9 percent while
Dell’s rose to 22.9 percent. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130529/box-on-track-
to-book-more-than-100-million-in-sales-this-year-ceo-levie-says/feed/ 0
Expensive Mobile Data Plans Will Soon Be a Relic of the Past, Says Cisco CEO
(Video) http://allthingsd.com/20130529/expensive-mobile-data-plans-will-soon-
be-a-relic-of-the-past-says-cisco-ceo/
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/expensive-mobile-data-plans-will-soon-be-a-
relic-of-the-past-says-cisco-ceo/#comments Wed, 29 May 2013 19:18:31 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=326587 Asa Mathat / AllThingsD.comAs data traffic
increases 300 percent over the next five years and non-PC devices become more
than 50 percent of usage, what happens to the networks moving that data
around? They can handle it, said Cisco CEO John Chambers in an interview at
D11 today. And meanwhile, mobile plans are going to get cheaper. “Price points
are going to come down rapidly,” he’d be willing to bet in conversation with
AllThingsD’s Walt Mossberg, who was skeptical of cellular’s capacity and
carriers’ inclination to make less money. “Transport will become free,”
Chambers said, forecasting a world where cellular data charges fall just like
voice cell service. “Architectures will change. With intelligence throughout
the network, the network will become the platform of the future.” Beyond
cellular capacity, Chambers said universal connectivity is coming closer
thanks to SP Wi-Fi, or Cisco’s “Service Provider Wi-Fi,” which uses unlicensed
spectrum to offload data. Wi-Fi, he said, will account for 80 percent to 90
percent of the growth of cellular networks. That will enable the enterprise to
go to emerging markets, chimed in Box CEO Aaron Levie, who was onstage with
Chambers. When more people are online all over the world, that creates “a
massive market opportunity by dramatically increasing what you can do.” It
could seriously change the scope of the enterprise to have that many more
customers. Full D11 Conference Coverage ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130529/expensive-mobile-data-plans-will-soon-be-a-
relic-of-the-past-says-cisco-ceo/feed/ 0 Chambers and Levie Both Want to Shake
Up Enterprise IT http://allthingsd.com/20130529/next-up-live-cisco-ceo-john-
chambers-and-box-ceo-aaron-levie-at-d11/ http://allthingsd.com/20130529/next-
up-live-cisco-ceo-john-chambers-and-box-ceo-aaron-levie-at-d11/#comments Wed,
29 May 2013 18:17:00 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=326332 Pairing Aaron
Levie, the young gregarious CEO of the up-and-coming enterprise cloud platform
company Box, with John Chambers of Cisco Systems, one of the tech industry’s
best known and longest-serving CEOs, might not seem an obvious choice. But
spend a little time with either one of them and you quickly realize that while
outwardly different — Levie is known to favor sneakers and perform magic
tricks at parties while Chambers wears impeccable suits and loves to talk
politics — they’re remarkably alike. Cisco is the lumbering $46 billion (2012
sales) networking giant that is trying to parlay its world-beating expertise
in selling equipment that runs the world’s networks into becoming the world’s
leading vendor of enterprise IT and a significant supplier to companies
embracing cloud computing. He’s also a veteran D: All Things Digital speaker.
Box, meanwhile, is all about the cloud. It’s the enterprise-oriented file-
sharing and collaboration service that has raised more than $300 million in
venture capital funding and is well on its way to being one of the most
anticipated initial public offerings of 2014. Today marks Levie’s first time
on the D: All Things Digital stage. 11:23 am: Session is starting. Walt
Mossberg just introduced Levie and Chambers. Levie: Referring to the previous
session on Glow, there’s a “natural partnership” for Bang With Friends. Walt:
Everyone knows Cisco and has known it for decades. You’ve been powering a lot
of computing and Internet for a long time. General question: Corporate IT was
one of the most regressive forces in technology. Those who came up with great
ideas would run into a wall of excuses. That seems to have been changing in
the last few years. The power and instinct to say no to something new and
interesting has dropped away. Is that a real thing and how is it changing your
businesses? Levie: The first 20 years, the complexity of building software and
systems and implementing it meant you needed to have a lot of internal
expertise. There was less democratization and innovation. The cloud and mobile
have inverted that in the last three to five years. When people bring their
own devices into the workplace, they need to bring their own software into the
workplace. CIOs are getting the idea that they can either let it happen or get
on the front end of it and improve productivity. Chambers: What you’re seeing
is a faster pace of innovation than I’ve ever seen. Speed all of a sudden is
the key ingredient. How do you make big data useful? CEOs are saying they’re
also technology companies. Seeing speed in terms of competition can be the
differentiation. Walt: There was a time when enterprise companies led the way.
Is that still the case? Chambers: It used to be consumer driven. If I were
betting, I’d say it’s going to flip in the next few years. Levie: The
expectation in the consumer Web is that you can share anything, any time, but
that hasn’t yet happened in the enterprise. Levie: You’ll have all news types
of use cases. Chambers: If you think of the Internet in four generations, the
fourth will be Internet of Things. It’s going to be driven by businesses
because businesses have to connect all the devices. 11:31 am: Walt: It seems a
lot of people who work under the thumb of corporate IT, they still have to
have a parallel set of devices. Some of the systems they use at the office are
old and haven’t been upgraded. Or an old work laptop versus their personal
one. Levie: There’s some pent-up demand that will unravel. When we used to
meet with CIOs they’d be running Windows machines. Now we see them with
MacBook Airs and iPhones. Levie: The three biggest deals we sold last year
were to companies created in the 1800s. Chambers: If businesses leaders can’t
get what they want from their own IT shops, they will get it from someone
else. I don’t know a CIO today that thinks they can limit the device you can
bring to work. BYOD trumps security, even in the Department of Defense. Walt:
Isn’t this an enormous culture shift? Those products are made by companies
that weren’t designed for use in the enterprise, and don’t even have an
enterprise sales force. (Apple doesn’t.) Chambers: Creative destruction is
speeding up, and the top five or six IT players are going to change in the
next few years. Levie: We’ll go meet customers, and their primary relationship
with companies like Oracle (which he selected randomly) is getting audited to
make sure they’re paying enough money for the software they use. Walt: John,
you’re the established guy, and Aaron is the challenger guy. Is that right?
Chambers: We see the market in much the same way. If you watch where CEOs are
watching the industry, they’re looking for speed. He sees $14 trillion in
profits emerging from Internet of Things. Chambers said Cisco and Box are
working on partnering. 11:41 am: Chambers said Cisco was too early with the
Flip Camera. It would have been better had the service moved to the cloud.
Walt: Can you focus on both the enterprise and consumers? Levie: To sell to
the enterprise, you have to have good consumer-grade instincts. Today that is
the standard by which every enterprise software company is going to be judged.
It has to be on par with consumer grade technology. Walt: So why not sell Box
service to consumers? Levie: It conflicts with our ability to roll out to
50,000 employees at large companies. We’re going to put all our wood behind
that arrow. Chambers: Cisco doesn’t enter markets where it can’t get 40
percent market share or be a leader. Walt: But you did try consumer. Chambers:
We try different things. We have two out of three acquisitions work out. Today
we’re number two in the world in cloud. We have 60 percent market share in
mobility. Not all moves work. We compete against market transitions not
companies. Walt: Talk about the ability of the Internet to bear the traffic
that is coming. Chambers: The traffic is going to increase 300 percent in five
years. It will move from being PC-like devices. Other devices will be more
than 50 percent. We’ll build routers that are able to do huge volumes. Walt:
How much of this traffic will be cellular networks where there is scarcity of
capacity? Aren’t we going to hit some kind of wall? Chambers: The price is
going to come down. Architectures are going to change. The network will become
the platform. Levine: As you have a proliferation of Wi-Fi, that creates an
opportunity for enterprise technology companies to work in new markets in new
ways. 11:49 am: Time for Q&A.; Question: Could you talk more about the
reinvention of Cisco for the next era? Talk about services like WebEx.
Chambers: Services by definition will occur. We will base our future on an
architectural play. We’ve done 15 acquisitions in the last 14 months. Nearly
all of them were software, services and recurring revenue. Question from
Esther Dyson: For Chambers. You were one of the first valley companies to
focus on employee health. What is your experience with this? Have you saved
cost? Chambers: A large part of successful companies is culture. We treat
employees as family. When employees have life-threatening illnesses in their
families we move heaven and Earth to help them. We think health is going to be
one of the fastest growing verticals in the next five years. Big investments
in IT are coming. Dyson: Investments in prevention rather than care after?
Chambers: Completely agree. Prevention is the least expensive form of care.
Question from Rolfe Winkler of The Wall Street Journal: It’s hard to overstate
the deflationary effect that Amazon is having on enterprise IT spend. Cisco
makes 60 percent gross margins selling routers and switches. Why isn’t Cisco —
like HP and Dell — a melting ice cube? Chambers: Been answering that question
for years. It’s about who gets the market transitions right. We’re going to
provide products to companies selling IT as a service. Secondly, it’s about
how do you deliver capabilities to your customers. We win wither way. Levie:
While things like Amazon Web Services take out some costs in the near term.
Later it drives the need for more IT. If companies like the Ciscos and the
Dells of the world can figure it out. Question for Aaron from Steward Alsop: I
have Box, Dropbox, Google Drive and Apple iCloud. How do you solve all the
different services? Levie: We thought it should be easy to store and share, we
thought there would be similarity among services. Our view is that where the
data is stored is less important than how the data is managed. Question about
the Internet of Things. Chambers: When you have $14 trillion worth of profits,
you’re going to see every company moving on it. The combination of server
technology and storage with networking will succeed. (He’s describing Cisco’s
Unified Computing System.) And that’s it, we’re done. Full D11 Conference
Coverage ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130529/next-up-live-cisco-ceo-john-
chambers-and-box-ceo-aaron-levie-at-d11/feed/ 0 D11: Welcome to the Post-PC
World, for Real This Time http://allthingsd.com/20130528/d11-welcome-to-the-
post-pc-world-for-real-this-time/ http://allthingsd.com/20130528/d11-welcome-
to-the-post-pc-world-for-real-this-time/#comments Tue, 28 May 2013 19:00:29
+0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=325584 One of the great pleasures of producing
D is that every year the discussion is different, because the technology,
Internet and media businesses are so dynamic. But, as we convene this, the
11th edition of our conference, the digital world is indisputably at an
inflection point: The PC has peaked, and it’s all about post-PC mobile
devices, software and services. That means smartphones and tablets, for now,
with wearable devices coming on strong. Our D speakers and attendees have been
talking about this trend for years, long before Apple’s Steve Jobs unveiled
the iPhone in January of 2007. But this year, we gather just about six weeks
after the report of the worst quarterly decline in PC sales ever recorded,
while sales of smartphones and tablets continue to surge. Android devices,
which didn’t exist until late 2008, cover the earth, and Apple alone has sold
more than 140 million tablets since April of 2010. And Samsung seems to be
everywhere. It’s no surprise, then, that everyone’s new slogan is “mobile
first!” This change has staggering implications for companies ranging from
unknown software startups to the “Gang of Four” platform giants identified by
Google Executive Chairman Eric Schmidt at D9 — Amazon, Apple, Facebook and
Google — and the giant he didn’t list, Microsoft. What happens to huge
companies like Dell and Hewlett-Packard that lack much of a post-PC or mobile
presence? Can the company that kicked off the new era, Apple, maintain its
reputation for innovation in the post-Jobs era under the onslaught of the
Android juggernaut? Can Google maintain control of its Android platform in the
face of Samsung’s power and Amazon’s refusal to use Google’s apps? Can
Facebook’s aggressive new mobile strategy succeed? Will Amazon do as well at
phones and other devices as it appears to have done at tablets? And can
Microsoft become the third big platform player with Windows 8 and Windows
Phone? If not, does BlackBerry have a shot? And more: Will wearable devices
that go beyond fitness bands, such as Google Glass, be the next historic game-
changers? Or will they remain niche products? Most of all, how does the mobile
surge and the wearable promise change user behavior, entertainment and
productivity? What will be the impact on society? Finally, given all these
sweeping changes, can anybody other than a few big companies make real money
in mobile? We’ll discuss these questions and more with a stellar lineup of
speakers, one that we’re especially proud to have sit in our signature red
chairs this year. Leading off will be Apple CEO Tim Cook, leader of arguably
still the most influential tech giant, but one that faces the challenges of
high expectations and its fiercest competition in years. Has Apple lost its
cool, or is it just secretly readying its next big surprise to take the world
by storm? Apple’s nemesis, Google, will be represented by Sundar Pichai, who
recently took over the Android platform in addition to his longtime leadership
of Chrome and Google’s apps. Will he combine the two platforms? How can he
balance Android’s open-source roots with the need for Google to make money off
the platform? We’ll also welcome back Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, who is not
only helping to steer a hugely important company trying to conquer mobile, but
also inspiring millions of women with her “Lean In” book and larger project.
Twitter’s smart and funny CEO, Dick Costolo, will also return to the D stage
to talk about the future of his iconic service, especially on mobile. And Ben
Silbermann, the co-founder of Pinterest, another social networking success
story, will make his D debut. Elon Musk, who is merely a pioneer of both the
electric car and private space-flight industries, will take our stage for the
first time. We wonder: What has he done for us lately? And to answer the
question of what’s up at Google’s hardware arm, Motorola, we’ll have its CEO,
Dennis Woodside, and his advanced research chief, Regina Dugan, who wowed the
crowd at D9 when she appeared as the head of DARPA, the Pentagon’s futuristic
research arm. Since speech is a core, vital technology in the mobile era,
we’ll welcome Paul Ricci, CEO of speech giant Nuance. Will he recognize our
accents? The CEO of General Electric, Jeff Immelt, will talk about how the
digital revolution affects traditional corporate giants. And Tom Staggs, who
heads Disney’s theme parks, will show off the latest technology being used by
visitors to navigate the iconic destinations. Recently departed Windows chief
Steven Sinfosky, who also ran Microsoft’s Office division, will share his
thoughtful views on the new post-PC landscape. For another look at the overall
landscape, we’ll have Kleiner Perkins partner Mary Meeker walk us through her
famous annual Internet report. And PayPal co-founder Max Levchin will show off
his latest project, which links technology and anatomy. This year, we’ll also
have some pairings of speakers we think will yield interesting insights. Aaron
Levie, the CEO of Box, the well-known enterprise cloud-storage firm, will
appear jointly with John Chambers, CEO of enterprise tech giant Cisco. The CEO
of Sony, Kazuo Hirai, will be joined by Jed York, the boss of the San
Francisco 49ers, to talk about the intersection of tech and sports. From the
entertainment world, we’ll have a trio of managers of famous stars, who have
been investing in tech in a big way: Troy Carter, chairman and CEO of the Atom
Factory; Guy Oseary, partner of A-Grade Investments; and Scooter Braun,
founder of SB Projects. Respectively, the three manage Lady Gaga, Madonna and
Justin Bieber. The witty and sharp Barry Diller, who knows the traditional
entertainment and Internet businesses inside and out, will be back, no doubt
to defend his right, via his latest venture Aereo, to stream broadcast
television. And new CNN boss Jeff Zucker will join him to discuss the future
of all TV. We’ll have Anne Sweeney, co-chair of Disney Media Networks and
president of the Disney/ABC Television Group, paired with I. Marlene King,
creator and executive producer of ABC’s tech-savvy hit show “Pretty Little
Liars.” Finally, we have a fascinating lineup of demos, including not one, but
two companies that focus on another emerging post-PC segment: The Internet of
Things. So buckle up and get ready to enjoy, learn and network. It’s time for
D once again. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130528/d11-welcome-to-the-post-pc-
world-for-real-this-time/feed/ 0 Draw Something From This: Yahoo's Design
Chief Tim Parsey to Depart http://allthingsd.com/20130523/draw-something-from-
this-yahoos-design-chief-tim-parsey-to-depart/
http://allthingsd.com/20130523/draw-something-from-this-yahoos-design-chief-
tim-parsey-to-depart/#comments Thu, 23 May 2013 20:43:28 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=324885 Yahoo’s design chief, the effervescent Tim
Parsey, will be leaving his job at the Silicon Valley Internet giant, sources
said. As SVP of User Experience Design at Yahoo, which centralized the task
under Parsey, he has been part of a range of redesigns of its major
properties, including its homepage, Flickr photo-sharing site, email and more.
As I noted when Parsey arrived in early 2011, “in the 67-ring circus that has
been Yahoo’s product organization, design was widely dispersed.” Translation:
It was not pretty, unless you enjoyed the Web stylings of 1997. Parsey
certainly had the cred in the design industry, with stints at Apple,
Microsoft’s entertainment and devices unit, Mattel and Motorola. Just before
Yahoo, he was a principal at a Seattle-based design firm called shiftalliance.
The British native ran Apple’s design studio for five years in the early 1990s
and was the main dude behind Motorola’s freaky V70 switchblade mobile phone in
2001. It’s not clear why he is leaving now, or where the crackerjack designer
is headed. But, amid a lot of Yahoo turmoil since he arrived, Parsey certainly
stabilized the design culture at the company. Also in play, according to
numerous sources: New Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer has a very “hands-on” style with
regard to design — she pretty much considers herself the last and only stop on
that train, among others, based on her experience at Google running a number
of products including its pristine and much acclaimed search box. No surprise,
then, she has involved herself strongly in the design process. On his LinkedIn
profile, which still lists him as working at Yahoo, Parsey talked about his
ethos of design there: “This is about weaving a global UX and UER organization
from the existing 200+ designers and researchers that today support an array
of different businesses. It’s part of a rather cool broader corporate
transition project. It’s also very much about establishing design as a potent,
world-class entity that’s fun to be part of.” He also notes: “These days I’m
very excited about the correlation between internal cultures that are truly
‘meaningful’ to designers ( and other functions ), and world-class design
innovation.” ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130523/draw-something-from-this-
yahoos-design-chief-tim-parsey-to-depart/feed/ 0