AllThingsD » Cathie Lesjak http://allthingsd.com Wed, 19 Feb 2014 15:45:11
+0000 en-US hourly 1 https://wordpress.org/?v=4.3.16
http://allthingsd.com/theme/images/logo-rss.jpg All Things Digital
http://allthingsd.com/ 144 22 HP Says 2014 Will Be Good, Maybe Not Awesome, as
Turnaround Is on Track http://allthingsd.com/20131009/hp-says-2014-will-be-
good-maybe-not-awesome-as-turnaround-is-on-track/
http://allthingsd.com/20131009/hp-says-2014-will-be-good-maybe-not-awesome-as-
turnaround-is-on-track/#comments Wed, 09 Oct 2013 17:52:40 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=364251 After its CEO Meg Whitman sounded a relatively
positive note in a speech to financial analysts Wednesday morning, computing
giant Hewlett-Packard said it expects the coming fiscal year to be
better/worse than it expected. The company just issued guidance saying that it
expects to earn between $3.55 and $3.75 a share in 2014, which straddles the
consensus expectation of analysts, who are forecasting $3.63 a share. HP said
it expects sales to grow in line with the gross domestic product in the U.S.
It also said it expects to return at least 50 percent of the $6 billion to
$6.5 billion free cash flow it plans to generate in 2014 to shareholders, via
dividends and share buybacks. Expect more details on revenue expectations from
CFO Cathie Lesjak when she makes her formal remarks at a meeting with
financial analysts in San Jose, Calif., later today. HP shares, which rallied
by more than six percent after Whitman’s remarks, maintained most of that
momentum. Its shares were trading at $21.91, up $1.16 as of 1:40 pm ET. The
original announcement is below: HP Provides Update on Turnaround Progress,
Provides Fiscal 2014 Outlook SAN JOSE, CA — Estimates non-GAAP diluted EPS for
fiscal 2014 of $3.55 to $3.75 and GAAP diluted EPS for fiscal 2014 of $2.85 to
$3.05 Models free cash flow of $6 billion to $6.5 billion in fiscal 2014
Expects to return at least 50% of fiscal 2014 free cash flow to shareholders
through dividends and share repurchases Today at HP’s 2013 Securities Analyst
Meeting, the company’s leadership team provided an update on HP’s progress
executing against its turnaround plan and future strategy. HP’s president and
chief executive officer Meg Whitman reviewed the accomplishments of the past
year — a “fix and rebuild” year — noting that the multi-year turnaround
remains broadly on track. In particular, the company: Has met or exceeded
quarterly non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) outlook since the
turnaround plan began through Q3 of fiscal 2013. Provided outlook in August
that HP expects free cash flow to approach $8 billion by the end of FY13.
Reduced operating company net debt by almost $8 billion over the past 12
months, approaching a goal of zero. Recommitted to smarter innovation, with
research and development (R&D;) spending expected to be in excess of $3
billion in fiscal 2013. “While there is a lot more work to be done, I am
confident about the progress we are making,” said Whitman. “We’re producing
tangible results, strengthening our balance sheet and delivering innovative
products across all our key segments. We are implementing the changes needed
to support our multi-year turnaround journey, reaffirm HP’s leadership
position, and create enduring value for customers as well as for our
shareholders.” The core of HP’s strategy is focused on providing unique
technology solutions for the “New Style of IT.” HP has the combination of
hardware, software, scale and innovation to provide the integrated solutions
that help customers realize the full benefits of cloud, security, big data and
mobility. While the company faces a challenging macro environment, shifting
market forces and a rapidly changing competitive landscape, Whitman emphasized
that the company has the right leadership team in place to advance its
strategy, drive innovation across the business and improve its go-to-market
execution. Whitman reiterated that she expects HP’s revenues to grow in line
with gross domestic product (GDP) over the long term. 2014 outlook Cathie
Lesjak, HP’s executive vice president and chief financial officer, provided a
financial outlook for fiscal 2014. With pockets of growth helping to offset
continuing challenges in the macro environment and weak public sector
spending, HP expects the year-over-year revenue decline in fiscal 2014 will
moderate from fiscal 2013. HP anticipates operating profit dollars to be flat
to up year-over-year in fiscal 2014, due to its continued focus on cost
savings and operational efficiency. The company estimates non-GAAP diluted EPS
for fiscal 2014 to be in the range of $3.55 to $3.75. HP estimates GAAP
diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.85 to $3.05 for fiscal 2014. Fiscal 2014
non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs related primarily to
the amortization of purchased intangible assets and a restructuring charge of
approximately $0.8 billion. HP expects to generate approximately $9 billion to
$9.5 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2014. After deducting
estimated fiscal 2014 capital expenditures, the company anticipates free cash
flow of $6 billion to $6.5 billion in fiscal 2014. Lesjak articulated the
company’s long-term commitment to financial discipline and a returns-based
capital allocation strategy. In fiscal 2014, the company is expecting to
return at least 50% of free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and
share repurchases. In addition, HP will invest in its product portfolio to
accelerate high-growth areas in the New Style of IT. HP plans to reinvest
approximately $0.12 per share of savings from its restructuring program into
the business in fiscal 2014, including products and solutions such as 3PAR,
networking, Vertica and cloud solutions. A copy of Lesjak’s presentation
materials accompanies this release. Business segment strategies Over the
course of the day, HP’s management team also laid out updated strategies for
the company’s business segments, including: Printing and Personal Systems Dion
Weisler, executive vice president of the Printing and Personal Systems (PPS)
business, and Steve Nigro, senior vice president of the Inkjet and Web
Solutions Business, part of the Printing business, gave an update on PPS.
Personal Systems continues to see traction in commercial, where it outgrew the
market in the most recent calendar quarter over the same period last year.
Printing continues to build on its long-standing market leadership across both
ink and laser and introduced a number of new breakthrough products in both
categories during fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2014, PPS will focus on continuing to
deliver on its leadership in traditional markets as well as driving product
innovation and developing print solutions that address the New Style of IT.
PPS’ priorities include profitable growth through greater segmentation,
continued product innovation and using its leadership position in commercial
to address opportunities in mobility, cloud and security. Enterprise Group
Bill Veghte, executive vice president and general manager of HP’s Enterprise
Group (EG), discussed the company’s opportunities in the $221 billion
enterprise infrastructure market. As enterprise customers move to a New Style
of IT, requiring more compute, more storage and more bandwidth, they will need
solutions built on modern architectures and innovations designed for the
future. Veghte acknowledged executional challenges facing the HP EG business
and provided a detailed plan to accelerate execution against great business
opportunity — highlighting adjustments to leadership, operating model, route-
to-market, and product and solution portfolio. Veghte also gave a strategic
overview of HP Converged Cloud and pointed to significant momentum in the past
year as enterprises are rapidly adopting HP’s hybrid cloud strategy. More than
1,900 enterprise customers have turned to HP for their hybrid cloud solution
in the past year, representing approximately 60% year-over-year customer
growth. Enterprise Services Mike Nefkens, executive vice president and general
manager of Enterprise Services (ES), and JJ Charhon, senior vice president and
chief operating officer of ES, provided an update on how ES has made progress
on improving operations and better aligning costs with business objectives
during the first three quarters in fiscal 2013. Key priorities for fiscal 2014
include a focus on the buildup of advisory and transformation offerings,
world-class service delivery, revitalization of the sales engine, and ongoing
cultural transformation across the organization. ES revenue is expected to
decline 4% to 6% year-over-year in fiscal 2014. However, a sharp focus on
operational improvements is expected to drive an improved operating margin of
3.5% to 4.5%. ES maintains its long-term financial model of 3% to 5% revenue
growth, an operating margin rate of 7% to 9% and return on invested capital of
15% to 25%. Software George Kadifa, executive vice president of Software,
spoke about how Software is enabling the New Style of IT and accelerating HP’s
ability to capture attractive market opportunities. The business is driving
profit expansion, while disrupting markets with the breadth and depth of its
technology offerings. Looking forward, Software will focus on its
differentiated strategy and strong product portfolio as well as continued
operational improvements. HP estimates the total addressable enterprise
software market is growing at a compound annual growth rate of 8% and by 2016,
expects that market to be $69 billion. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20131009/hp-
says-2014-will-be-good-maybe-not-awesome-as-turnaround-is-on-track/feed/ 0
HP's Whitman Sees 2014 as a "Pivotal Year" in Turnaround Effort
http://allthingsd.com/20131009/liveblogging-hps-2013-securities-analyst-
meeting/ http://allthingsd.com/20131009/liveblogging-hps-2013-securities-
analyst-meeting/#comments Wed, 09 Oct 2013 14:37:15 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=364170 Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman sounded a
cautiously optimistic note in a speech before financial analysts in San Jose,
Calif., today. Calling the forthcoming 2014 fiscal year “pivotal,” Whitman
steered away from providing much in the way of specific financial guidance.
That’s coming later from CFO Cathie Lesjak. But Whitman did say she expects
that revenue will stabilize in the coming year. Previously, she had said that
2014 would be the first year of meaningful growth. She also specifically
called out Microsoft and Intel — longtime partners supplying chips and
operating systems for PCs and servers — as partners who are becoming
competitors. It’s worth noting that earlier this week HP announced a notebook
running Google’s Android operating system. HP shares rallied by $1.32, or more
than six percent, on Whitman’s comments, to $22.05 a share as of 12:15 pm ET.
Below is AllThingsD’s liveblog coverage of Whitman’s remarks: 8:43 am: And
we’re live. With about 15 minutes to go before the proceedings begin, we’re
being treated to some peppy instrumental music. 8:03 am: Okay, the program is
getting under way. First up is Rob Binns, who is taking care of housekeeping.
Agendas and such. CEO Meg Whitman will speak first. Cathie Lesjak will speak
at the end of the day, which means the guidance will come later in the day.
Wonder if that means bad news? 8:07 am: Whitman is now speaking. Whitman: I
want to talk about fiscal 2013, and about how we’ve done year to date versus
our outlook given last year. I want to talk about where we’re headed, and how
each of the businesses fit together. Whitman: The turnaround plan is “broadly
on track.” Whitman: Last year, I mapped out a five-year journey for turning
HP. Now I can confidently say that we’re making real progress. Whitman: In
short, last year at this time, I felt that HP was falling dangerously behind.
Whitman: We generated about $7 billion in free cash flow in the first three
quarters, well ahead of forecast. We’ve lowered our operating company net debt
by nearly $8 billion. Whitman: While I would love for us to be at the end of
this journey, I am comfortable with the efforts we are making. We stabilized
our enterprise services businesses. We had very serious execution challenges.
Under Mike Nefkens and JJ Charhone, we have stabilized that business. Whitman:
After 2014, we are not going to do another big restructuring. In Q3 we lowered
our cash-conversion cycle to just 18 days. We thought it would be 24 to 26
days, so we’ve done better. By the end of 1H-2013, we had already met our
full-year cash flow projection. Whitman: We’ve made critical moves to bolster
the senior leadership team, including the promotions of Bill Veghte to head of
Enterprise Group, Dion Weisler at Printing and Personal Systems, and Martin
Fink as CTO and head of HP Labs. Whitman is now running through a bunch of
recent hires to different business units. Whitman: Operating company net debt
is now below pre-Autonomy levels. We can now make investments to grow our
business. 8:17 am: When I arrived as CEO, basic instrumentation and operating
cadence did not exist, for a company of HP’s size and complexity. We’ve had to
build a lot of it. Whitman: This year alone, I’ve personally met with more
than 1,000 customers and partners. Whitman: R&D; spending is expected to be $3
billion. Now she’s showing a video about what’s happening on the innovation
front. It’s the Nascar video that HP showed at HP Discover. Actually it only
started with the Nascar bit. Whitman is now back onstage. She’s revisiting her
whole argument that there’s a big, fundamental shift taking place in the IT
market — the “new style of IT,” that she talks about often. From the beginning
of time, all of humanity created five exabytes of information. Now we create
that amount of information in five hours. Whitman: Only HP has the ability to
deliver across the full spectrum of IT solutions the market is going to
demand. Whitman: I want to talk about our growth. She’s going to hit some
highlights. In the Enterprise Group, it’s all about “converged
infrastructure.” It’s our phrase, and it combines servers, storage and
networking. We’re excited about our next generation of blade servers and
Moonshot. Now she’s talking about 3Par, the storage product. In networking,
we’re the No. 2 player, and we do it at a lower cost. (A little shot at Cisco
there.) Now it’s on to software, including mentions of Vertica and Autonomy.
And now something new, called Haven, a big-data analytics platform. 8:32 am:
Whitman: This group of products and services is how I see HP moving to growth.
The reality is that today we have a lot of declining businesses. So we have to
manage that transition from the declining business to the growing businesses.
… In time, the new businesses will overtake the declining businesses. Whitman:
We have to aggressively invest in the new businesses. We’ve got to continue to
nurture them with the appropriate investments. And we also have to work to
maintain our flat businesses. (Like printing.) Then we have to manage the
decline of the businesses profitably, and optimize their profitability.
Whitman: We have much more work to do. We have to overcome some challenges,
and we have to take advantage of some opportunities. Whitman: HP’s
traditional, highly profitable markets face significant disruption. Wintel
devices are being challenged by ARM-based devices. Printing remains flat
despite the growth of devices in use. Whitman: The disruptive forces are very
tough and very real, and they are accelerating. Whitman: We are seeing
profound changes in the competitive landscape. Our competitors are expanding
across the IT stack. Current partners like Intel and Microsoft are turning
from partners to outright competitors. (Interesting name-checking there.) Now
she’s talking about customers. United Airlines. Its infrastructure needs to be
running 24 hours. We run and operate all these mission-critical systems for
United. We treat United like it is our only customer, and that is what we must
do with every customer. I am still not pleased that we missed too many
opportunities. We are doing a much better job of connecting to our customers
and listening to what they need. I don’t think we have always done a good job
on this. Whitman: We have to up our game substantially. We have been too
insular for too long. This has cost us with our customers, and it has cost us
with our partners. Example: Recently, a CIO of a major corporation told me
when we show up, we show up late with solutions. He already has three emails
from three competitors who have already scheduled meetings. We’re often late
to the game. We have to fix that. Whitman: We’re going to make real progress
on this in 2014. We have worked through a process to identify where we’re
going to place. We’ve identified the most profitable 40 country-category
pairs. We’ve identified the top 30 innovations that hold the most promise for
2014 and beyond. And 15 of the most promising growth markets. Whitman: We
expect to see better, faster commercialization of innovation in 2014. We
expect total revenue to stabilize and drive real pockets of growth. She’s
winding up and getting ready to close. Fiscal 2014 will be a pivotal year. I
feel confident that we have the right strategy and the right set of assets. I
see a new sense of spirit and determination. A will to win. Our customers want
us to win. In fiscal 2015, you can still expect to see acceleration, and in
fiscal 2016, an industry-leading company. We expect the results of our efforts
will create enduring value for our shareholders. Whitman is through speaking
now. Not a lot in the way of specifics. The guidance, which last year came
from Cathie Lesjak right after Whitman’s remarks, is coming after lunch. 8:53
am: My guess — and I should emphasize that it’s only a guess — is that,
despite Whitman’s optimistic long-term outlook, that the in-the-trenches
guidance for 2014 isn’t going to be good. They don’t want Lesjak’s remarks and
the guidance to be a distraction from the rest of the day’s presentations.
With that, I’ll wrap this liveblog and return with another one when Lesjak
comes to the stage. Thanks for tuning in. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131009/liveblogging-hps-2013-securities-analyst-
meeting/feed/ 0 Whitman's Turnaround Plans at HP Under Scrutiny This Week
http://allthingsd.com/20131007/whitmans-turnaround-plans-at-hp-under-scrutiny-
this-week/ http://allthingsd.com/20131007/whitmans-turnaround-plans-at-hp-
under-scrutiny-this-week/#comments Mon, 07 Oct 2013 15:06:04 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=363522 Later this week, Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg
Whitman will give Wall Street analysts and the rest of the world the latest
view on the state of her efforts to turn the massive computing and services
giant around. The company will be hosting a meeting with analysts in San Jose
on Wednesday. Judging by HP’s share performance this year, it is likely to be
a happier gathering than last year, when the company drastically cut its
outlook for 2013. But, on the “bad news” scale, it would be hard to surpass
last year’s analyst meeting. Since that time, HP shares had been one of the
Dow’s leading performers — that is, until HP was cut from the Dow Jones
Industrial Average last month. As of this morning, HP shares had risen by 48
percent since the end of 2012. But HP has been seen to be swimming upstream on
many fronts. When the company last reported its quarterly earnings in August,
Whitman admitted that a key plank of her strategic plan for pushing HP toward
recovery appeared unlikely. Whereas 2012 and 2013 were to be the years of
stabilizing and repairing HP, 2014 was to be the first year of meaningful
growth. On a conference call with analysts on Aug. 21, she said that now
appears “unlikely.” There are many reasons for this, many of which are not
Whitman’s fault. One big one is the decline of the personal computer industry.
On one hand, there’s the fact that PC sales have contracted at a rate never
seen before in the history of the industry. Amid that decline, China’s Lenovo
has overtaken HP as the world’s leading vendor. With HP’s personal-systems
group still amounting to the biggest chunk of its overall business by revenue
— $7.7 billion, or nearly 28 percent of sales in the most recent quarter —
it’s hard to see a path to easy growth. In the latest quarter, sales in the
segment fell by 11 percent, and profits fell by nearly 44 percent. Things look
no easier in the Enterprise group, the sprawling $30 billion business unit
(2012 sales) that was to represent its future hopes for a recovery, which, as
of last quarter, accounted for more than 24 percent of total revenue. In the
most recent quarter, sales fell by more than nine percent, and profits by 20
percent. Whitman conceded that she was so disappointed by the results in that
business unit that she reassigned its head, Dave Donatelli in a significant
executive shake-up. And, before that, she reassigned Todd Bradley, the former
head of the PC and printing unit. Add to the declines a newly aggressive set
of competitors, not the least of which is a soon-to-be-private Dell, a
printing business that has sort of flattened out, and an Enterprise Services
business that is still in the process of being repaired, and it’s difficult to
see how Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak, who will likely provide the company’s
latest financial outlook, will be able to spin a positive outlook for 2014 or
beyond. Analysts are already forecasting declines in both revenue and profits.
The average estimate of the 31 analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial calls
for HP to report sales of $107.7 billion in 2014, which would amount to a
decline of nearly 11 percent from 2012. Put another way: If those forecasts
turn out to be accurate, the biggest technology company in the world will have
seen its sales decline by more than $12 billion in two years. If HP’s formal
guidance is significantly worse than what the Street already expects, it will
amount to the first meaningful indications that Whitman may not be on track to
do what she set out to do when she took over as CEO in 2011. Her stated plan
to reinvigorate HP and put it on a path to sustained growth could morph into
one marked instead by managing its long-term decline as best she can. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20131007/whitmans-turnaround-plans-at-hp-under-scrutiny-
this-week/feed/ 0 HP Says It May Not Grow Sales in 2014 After All
http://allthingsd.com/20130821/liveblogging-hewlett-packards-q3-earnings-
conference-call/ http://allthingsd.com/20130821/liveblogging-hewlett-
packards-q3-earnings-conference-call/#comments Wed, 21 Aug 2013 21:02:00 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=352777 On Hewlett-Packard’s third quarter conference
call today, CEO Meg Whitman explained her rationale behind the recent
management shake-ups and many other things. She also revealed that the company
no longer expects to grow revenue in 2014 as has been expected. This is the
first major step back from the five-year turnaround plan outlined at last
year’s meeting with securities analysts. The results were close to what Wall
Street expected, but ultimately fell short. As I’m typing these words, HP
shares are down about 1.5 percent in after-hours trading, mainly in response
to the lighter-than-expected guidance for the remainder of the year. Earlier:
2:03 pm: The hold music has just ended and the call is about to get under way
in earnest. Boilerplate on “forward-looking statements.” Meg is now speaking.
Some sectors are showing progress. Overall our turnaround continues. I remain
comfortable with where we’re heading. 2:07 pm: Meg is basically saying that
the company is executing against the long-term turnaround plan. And also
talking about some of the new product offerings. From a macroeconomic
standpoint, we continue to see a weak enterprise spending environment.
Sentiment is better in the U.S. China and Europe continue to be weak. Cash
flow from operations was $2.7 billion. Operating company net debt is now
approaching “pre-Autonomy levels.” Here comes the talk about management
changes. Dion Weisler is shifting the PC business to a multi-OS multi-form
factor strategy. And now on to the Donatelli-Veghte change. Donatelli is
taking on a “special assignment,” she says. Bill Veghte will retain
responsibility for the pan-HP cloud product. Henry Gomez will assume marketing
in addition to communications. Marty Homlish will be “chief customer service
officer.” Now it’s on to business unit performance. First what went well.
Printing did well. We’re seeing strength in ink-in-the-office program.
Hardware sales are up. Revenue is down, profitability is up. In Enterprise
Services, business is stabilizing. We saw add-on business offset the runoff
from four accounts that chose to leave HP services. Improvements in signings,
but they were mostly renewals. This will be a multi-year journey. One big win
was with the U.S. Navy worth $3.4 billion over five years. Enterprise Group:
We see near-term revenue pressure in ISS and storage. Interest in Project
Moonshot has been strong. We are in testing and development with many key
customers. Converged storage was up 37 percent, but was offset by weakness in
traditional storage. Networking revenue was flat, but “we must grow this
business faster.” 2:15 pm: Software was up one percent. We saw continued
improvement in operating leverage. Operating margin was 20.5 percent. Let me
turn to where performance needs to improve. Enterprise Group was pressured by
lower revenue especially in ISS, which continues to suffer from business model
problems. The net impact is five points of market share. (Now we see what’s up
with the management change.) Here’s future outlook: “We now expect that
revenue growth in fiscal 2014 is unlikely.” That’s a big walk-back from the
analyst meeting last year. If I’m not mistaken, that’s the first admission
that the overall turnaround strategy isn’t taking hold as expected. Aaaand …
HP shares are falling in after-hours trading again. They had recovered a bit
after falling nearly four percent, but are now down by more than three percent
again. As of 2:19 pm PT, HP shares are trading at $24.57, down 81 cents. And
falling further. Okay back to the call. CFO Cathie Lesjak is speaking. Lesjak:
Operating profit of $908 million in printing. Commercial hardware sales up 12
percent. Lesjak: Personal systems continues to change a challenging
environment. Consumer weakness led the problem. Broad-based regional softness
led by Europe. Personal systems contributed just nine percent of
profitability. (So while it continues to account for a lot of sales, the
exposure to profitability isn’t all that much.) Lesjak: Storage revenue down
10 percent. We remain excited about converged storage, up 37 percent. Business
Critical Systems — the Itanium server line that was the subject of the lawsuit
with Oracle last year — fell 26 percent, but that’s consistent with
expectations. Lesjak: Signings up double digits in Enterprise Services. Our
ability to sign deals outside our traditional focus needs to improve. Sales of
security products grew double digits and Vertica was up triple digits. 2:28
pm: Lesjak: We saw better execution in software sales this quarter, but we
still have work to do. Lesjak: We continue to drive free cash flow and improve
the balance sheet. Free cash flow was $2 billion. Lesjak: We spent just $3
million on share repurchases. During the quarter we had material non-public
information that prevented us from buying back shares. The average for share
buybacks was way off the historical average. Gross cash was $13.7. Operating
net debt was $1.2 billion. Lesjak: I am pleased with reducing net debt. We
paid off a $1.1 billion maturity on Aug. 1. Lesjak: She’s restating the non-
GAAP EPS expectation of $3.52 to $3.57 which is on the low end of the
consensus. Full-year free-cash flow will be $8 billion. “We expect some
pullback in Q4.” More details about FY14 to come at the analyst meeting in
October. 2:33 pm: Now time for Q&A.; First is J.P. Morgan, asking Meg about
commentary on execution. How much was driven by tech deficiencies versus go-
to-market problems, or both? Whitman: We were disappointed in EG’s
performance. This is less technology than it is a number of other areas. We
have to have the right products in the right market segments in the right cost
structure. We have some work to do around supply chain and manufacturing
strategy. We also have to simplify the sales motion. There are some bright
spots. My view is that we have some operational excellence work that has to be
done. I’m confident in the technology but we have more work to do. Lesjak:
Commenting on service. We have been working with four big accounts. One is
done, we’re working with three others on the transition. Next question, from
Toni Sacconaghi: He’s asking about the management changes. Perhaps you can
comment about what are the specific marching orders to the new executives? Why
not look to attract talent from the outside? You say you want fresh ideas, and
all management changes have included promotions solely from within. Whitman:
This is a five-year turnaround. We’re entering the next phase. We need to
accelerate into the next turn. We need the right job at the right time with
the right experience and domain expertise. I have to match the right
executive. I have a preference for promoting from within. In the case of Dion
Weisler, the results in Asia were good for PPG. In the case of Bill Veghte,
his software and selling expertise from his days at Microsoft are helpful.
Yes, I want to go with people who have fresh ideas and who don’t have to start
at the beginning of the learning curve. Katy Huberty of Morgan Stanley asks
about the cash flow improvement: Printer hardware unit sales were the
strongest in a while, so why are supplies sales down so much? Lesjak: We’re
happy with the cash conversion cycle. What’s showing up in the numbers is
educating everyone in the company on how they can help improve cash flow, and
that is embedded into their bonuses. We think the cash conversion cycle in the
low 20 days is more realistic. On printers, we used the “Yen tailwind”
(currency stuff pitting U.S. dollar against Japanese Yen) to place more units.
We expect supplies will be volatile quarter to quarter. Our strategy is to
drive unit sales of printers that will consume more HP ink. Those are all
really designed to drive more sales per unit. Early indications are those
strategies are going to bear out. Question from Citi for Meg: It used to be
you had a lot of confidence in the five-year plan. It seems the confidence is
down going into 2014. Is the five-year program changing? Whitman: Our
turnaround is working. Some businesses are performing as expecting, some not.
Enterprise Group’s weak execution has amplified challenges we know exist. PC
market has not yet stabilized. Enterprise Services has some growth challenges
next year. I am confident that we can address the challenges. But I think it
is unlikely given the changes that we will see revenue growth in 2014. 2:46
pm: A question about Technology Services. Also a question about industry
standard services. Why didn’t we hear about the problems earlier? Lesjak: One
of the things we are seeing in TS is the need to improve attach rates on newer
products. As older products like BCS services that have a long tail, they are
coming down and impacting TS results. We are trying improve attach on new
products. Whitman: The server business has been under pressure for a long
time. The revenue loss has been stronger than expected. We have to move
faster. Moonshot will deliver, but it hasn’t yet. I’m telling managers to set
realistic targets and then deliver on them. This isn’t all about revenue
growth. This is something that HP has done well historically. Question from
Raymond James: Do you expect trends in the enterprise business to deteriorate
further? What do you think about M&A; activity? Whitman: We are in the happy
position of being able to reevaluate our capital allocations. We will be “back
in the market” on acquisitions. Wow. Whitman: We will be very focused and
disciplined. Acquisitions are going to have to be a part of how we turn
around. There you have it. HP will be back in the M&A; marketplace next year
or even sooner. 2:53 pm: Incidentally, I just checked the latest price on HP
shares in after-hours trading. As of 2:53 pm PT, it’s down more than five
percent to $24 even. Shannon Cross of Cross Research. She’s asking about
strategy. Some competitors (Dell) are being very aggressive on pricing and
winning share. Lesjak: Whether on servers or PCs, we’re focused on long-term
profitability. We believe the way we’re going to get there is investing in our
own IP. The decision is what is the best thing for the business to drive long
term profitability. Cross is asking about demand in China. Whitman: China is
softer that we’d anticipated. We are seeing more growth in tier 4-6 cities.
But it’s reasonably soft across the board. Lesjak: Networking in China was
very strong. We are the leading market share holder in China for networking.
(ATD readers already knew that.) 2:56 pm: Keith Bachman of BMO: He’s asking
for an update on restructuring. It’s not apparent that HP is getting the cost
benefit from the restructuring. (He’s referring to the layoff of about 29,000
people.) Lesjak: There’s labor and on-labor. We had 3,800 people leave in Q3.
To date, that’s 22,500 who have left the company. We’re on track to hit 26,000
by the end of fiscal 2013 on the non-labor portion of the restructuring. This
is enabling us to compete on price and other things. The savings that are
getting generated is cushioning the bottom line. Without the savings, the
results on the EPS line would be materially lower. Bachman: Once the savings
from cuts runs out, what happens to plans to grow revenue? Lesjak: These
savings are giving us cover to make the changes we need to grow revenue and
fix our execution issues. Whitman: We are making changes that we think will
grow over time. The mix is currently weighted toward declining businesses. Our
mix of business is not helping. Take storage. New products growing fast, older
ones declining. “That is a metaphor for the whole company.” Whitman is
wrapping the call: “I feel very confident in our turnaround. I’m really
excited about our new management team. We are on track and things are headed
in the right direction.” The call is now concluded. Thanks for tuning in. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130821/liveblogging-hewlett-packards-q3-earnings-
conference-call/feed/ 0 Is HP's Turnaround Strategy Sustainable?
http://allthingsd.com/20130523/is-hps-turnaround-strategy-sustainable/
http://allthingsd.com/20130523/is-hps-turnaround-strategy-
sustainable/#comments Thu, 23 May 2013 14:40:46 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=324674 The fundamental problem facing the technology
giant Hewlett-Packard is that some of the products that make up its biggest
lines of business are in a long-term decline, and that new products aren’t yet
generating enough revenue to make up for them. That makes the multiyear
restructuring and turnaround plan put in place last year by CEO Meg Whitman
essentially a fight against time. Shares of HP rose by more than 13 percent to
$24.09 as of 10:15 am ET. The catalyst was yesterday’s quarterly earnings
report that contained better-than-expected profits amid sales that fell short
of consensus forecasts by more than half a billion dollars. Analysts this
morning are questioning whether or not the company can maintain the veneer of
progress toward a turnaround in the quarters ahead. “Shrinking your way to
profitability buys time but doesn’t equal a turnaround,” was the headline on a
research note from Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank Securities this morning.
With revenue down by 10 percent year on year, and sales in major business
segments declining between 1 percent (printing) and 20 percent (personal
computers), HP’s success this quarter and last appears to have been more about
minding its cash flow and costs carefully, and less about selling more of the
goods and services that make it money. “HP is sacrificing market share,
delaying research and development investment and the financial benefit of past
restructuring actions to support near-term profitability which in our view is
not sustainable,” Whitmore wrote. Whitman explained yesterday, both in a
conference call with analysts and in an interview with AllThingsD, that HP
walked away from deals to sell PCs and servers that didn’t contain enough
profit. It had the result of yielding some of its market share ground — HP
leads the world in both PC and server sales — to Dell. “Unsustainable,”
appeared to be the word of the day among analysts covering HP. It also
appeared in a note from Goldman Sachs analyst Bill Shope, who reiterated his
“sell” rating on HP shares. HP’s exposure to “distressed end markets” will
eventually overwhelm whatever actions it may take in the short- to medium
term. Brian White of Topeka Capital Markets also maintained a “sell,” advising
shareholders that yesterday’s 13 percent after-hours surge on HP’s share price
represented an opportunity to do just that. Hoped-for growth from sales of new
products like Project Moonshot and new networking products are good, but even
that success may not be enough replace the revenue that’s being lost, worries
Evercore analyst Rob Cihra. “Low-power Moonshot servers, higher-end printing
and software-defined networking all help but much more seems needed to move
such a massive needle,” he wrote in a note to clients today. “Hopes for FY13
stability otherwise just appear to flow from deep restructuring cuts.” Brian
Marshall of ISI presented a similar view in a note to clients: “As global
economic growth softens and PCs and printers face secular decline, it will be
challenging for large technology vendors such as HP to find significant
sources of new growth that can move the needle on approximately $110 billion
of annual revenue.” When surveying analysts on the subject of HP, it doesn’t
take long to return to the notion of a breakup. HP is worth more in pieces,
the argument goes, than as a unified company. That’s what will happen if HP
isn’t able to turn the corner soon enough, argues Toni Sacconaghi of Sanford
Bernstein, in a note today. While Sacconaghi has an “outperform” rating on HP
shares, based on its prospects for improvement over the next six to nine
months — an opinion he explained in detail on CNBC yesterday — he remains
convinced that, after that, HP will either fix what’s broken or break itself
up. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130523/is-hps-turnaround-strategy-
sustainable/feed/ 0 Q&A; With HP CEO Meg Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak: The
Turnaround Is on Schedule http://allthingsd.com/20130522/qa-with-hp-ceo-meg-
whitman-and-cfo-cathie-lesjak-the-turnaround-is-on-schedule/
http://allthingsd.com/20130522/qa-with-hp-ceo-meg-whitman-and-cfo-cathie-
lesjak-the-turnaround-is-on-schedule/#comments Thu, 23 May 2013 00:41:09 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=324537 If shareholders were eager for evidence that
the turnaround plan at troubled technology giant Hewlett-Packard was still in
place, they got it but good from the company today. After rivals like Dell and
IBM turned in earnings reports that came up short, owing to the tough state of
IT spending, it says a lot about how far HP has come in the last year that it
is the one reporting results that handily beat the forecasts of analysts. HP
shares rose more than 13 percent to $24.05 in after-hours trading. But in a
short phone interview with AllThingsD, CEO Meg Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak
reiterated what they said on a conference call with analysts: Progress has
been made, but there’s still a lot of work to be done. AllThingsD: Meg, let’s
talk about the state of the competitive environment. We heard some pretty
tough results from Dell last week, and you said on the call that HP was
choosing to pass on some deals in order to protect profit margins. Tell me a
little more about that. Whitman: For the long term, profitability remains a
focus for us because we can’t afford to let our profitability crater the way
Dell did. We have to have the ability to invest in the next generation of PCs
and servers and software. It was a tough quarter. We walked away from several
deals and lost some share. But it felt like we did the right thing in going
after the deals that were the right deals for us. There were also some
execution issues. We have to make sure we have the right product for the right
customers at the right price point. And particularly at the low end, I think
we could do a better job there. But overall I’m reasonably pleased that we
made the right decisions in the PC business. Dell was also making a lot of
noise about industry standard servers and how it took some share away from HP.
Was it a similar dynamic in servers as it was in PCs? Whitman: Yeah. We saw
what happened to Dell’s earnings. They were down 75 percent. If they were a
publicly held company that was trading freely in absence of a buyout number,
the stock would be down by 50 percent. It would be ridiculous. We are a
publicly held company and we have to invest in the long haul. So we had to
choose to walk away from some deals in hyperscale and industry standard
servers and PCs that didn’t make sense for the company. I feel like we did the
right thing, but there’s always something you can learn from these things. How
do you feel about competing against a privately held Dell versus a publicly
held Dell? We saw some indication of how it might behave in the marketplace
this quarter. Do you think you’re going to have more of this aggressive
pricing behavior and so on? Whitman: I don’t know exactly how their behavior
is going to change. But remember, they’re loading a lot of debt onto the
company. And remember how LBOs work. The key is to pay off the debt quickly so
you can take the company public again and make a lot of money. We’ll see if
they remain as aggressive as they have been. But frankly, this is just a
competitive business. We have a lot of competition. We have shown that we can
win over time whether it’s against Acer or other manufacturers that we beat
out. So if it’s Dell or anyone else, we have to have continuous improvement.
We have to invest in the right products. We have to streamline our go-to-
market strategy, we have to constantly refine our supply chain and we have to
be more agile. And that is just part of being in the business. Lesjak: And
we’ve shown that by being No. 1 in the market for industry standard servers
for many, many years now, and we’ve been competing against Dell that entire
time. Cathie, there was a lot of talk on the call about reducing HP’s debt.
Give me a look ahead as to what changes when that debt comes down to
approaching zero, then what happens? Lesjak: It frees us up to step back and
look at what we want to do with the cash we’re generating, and we want to make
sure we’re making the right kind of investments. Those investments may be in
buying back shares, or capital expenditures, or research and development to
get us on track for the future, or to make small M&A; deals. And we want to
evaluate these all on a returns basis, both in the near term and in the long
term. Because you really need to do both. Some decisions will be based on the
near term and with some we’ll be willing to wait a long time for the returns
because they’ll be worth it. This is actually one of those moments when we’re
going through a lot of product transitions, where the new style of IT products
are coming in and the older style products are going away. And what we really
want to be able to do, instead of having to manage big transitions, we want to
get through them more quickly and that means that you have to invest for the
short term and long term. Whitman: I’ve been saying this a lot lately: You
have to plant acorns before you have oak trees. And I think with a lot of the
CEO transitions, we didn’t plant enough acorns. And now we’re paying that
price. So part of the impression I got from this quarter and last is that
you’re able to beat the Street expectations in part because you’re able to
manage your cash flow very tactically. You did well with cash flow for the
first half of the year and you said on the call that you don’t expect it to
remain as strong in the second half. With the macro environment remaining so
weak, I come away thinking that your success is really less about products and
lines of business and right now more about managing and taking out costs. Is
that fair? Lesjak: I’d sum it all up to operational excellence. You have to do
this all the time. I mean, we’re in a competitive industry. Margins are tight
and you have to be maniacally focused on managing your costs every minute, and
making sure you’ve got the right product in the right place at the right time.
I think this has to be part of the DNA of the company. There’s no moment when
you exhale and then you get to spend more. This is about being focused all the
time and bringing that discipline to the company. Now in the second half we
have some extraordinary cash payments to make around taxes and restructuring
payments. As well as some cap-ex that we think will be good investments for
the future. Is there any indication that the macro environment is going to
improve? We’re seeing the worst environment for PCs pretty much ever, and IT
spending generally isn’t looking so good. Do you sense any improvement in
either? Whitman: From a macroeconomic perspective, which is what drives IT
spending across small businesses, medium ones and big enterprises, I think the
environment remains about the same. I could be wrong here. We don’t see any
improvement coming in Europe and we don’t see an improvement in the U.S. So
we’re not counting on those as tailwinds or headwinds, but really more of the
same. PCs are a little different. PCs are a subset of personal systems, and as
you know that business is growing generally with all the tablets and mobile
devices. It’s possible the PC growth rate doesn’t decline as much. It may
continue or it may flatten. The objective is that when it starts to flatten
out, whose is the company with the best products and the company best-
positioned to gain share. We want it to be us. Lesjak: Taking advantage of the
fact that tablets are a growing segment, you really look at HP’s position in
tablets, and that will improve significantly in the second half of this year.
We’ve got the Slate 7 Android consumer tablet and the Elitepad commercial
tablet. Those ramp in the second half, so we’ll have some help on the top
line. Not so much in the PC business but personal systems. Project Moonshot
launched during the quarter and there’s a sense that there’s a lot of hope
riding on that product. When does it start shipping in earnest for revenue? Is
that a 2014 story? Lesjak: It really ramps in the second half of this year but
it’s more of a 2014 story. The real material benefit is 2014 and 2015. IDC has
done some projections that the Web and cloud services business will grow about
19 percent in 2016. So that works out to about 8-10 million servers between
now and then. So that’s the market that Moonshot is going after. Whitman: You
also have to remember that the ramp is slower with these enterprise products
than with the consumer products. Big enterprises need to bring them in and do
a proof of concept and see what workloads they want to run on them. And then
they have to prove it out. Enterprises move more slowly, but when they move,
they move big. But the ramp is slower than the the consumer product. What’s
your biggest priority for the rest of the year now, Meg? Whitman: We continue
with our restructuring program. We said it was going to be a three-year
program, and we’re about halfway through that timeline. So there’s more work
to do there. And to Cathie’s point, it becomes part of the DNA. This is what
we do in the normal course of business. We also have to manage the transition
between the new products and the older products. We’d like to accelerate the
growth of the new products if we can. And you said on the call, despite all
these market headwinds, you think you can grow next year. Whitman: We do. We
continue to believe that growth is possible next year. You’ve got to remember,
we’re doing this amid some of the biggest transitions that have hit the IT
industry in a generation. The macro environment is not going to help. The
delayed runoff in enterprise services helps this year but hurts next year. But
we think we can grow. It depends on a lot of different factors. To be clear,
we expect EPS growth in 2014 regardless. What’s your latest thinking on
Autonomy? Is that part of the operation where it should be? Whitman: I think
Robert Youngjohns and his team have done a great job of stabilizing Autonomy.
We’ve put in some systems that were lacking and we’ve changed our go-to-
market. We’ve invested in R&D; jobs there. We had 50 openings for research
jobs there recently and I suspect that most of them have been filled by now.
So I’m pleased with the progress. That team went through a lot, so I have to
give them a shout-out. They had some difficult circumstances. And I’m pleased
with what they’re doing. I think you’re going to see Autonomy grow in the next
few quarters. You still having fun, Meg? It is fun. The senior team feels like
they’re making a difference. The turnaround is on schedule. Obviously there
are lessons learned every quarter, but we feel good about where we are. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130522/qa-with-hp-ceo-meg-whitman-and-cfo-cathie-
lesjak-the-turnaround-is-on-schedule/feed/ 0 HP's Turnaround Progress Slow but
Sure, Says CEO Whitman http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hewlett-
packards-q2-earnings-conference-call/ http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hewlett-
packards-q2-earnings-conference-call/#comments Wed, 22 May 2013 20:49:42 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=324440 Hewlett-Packard, the troubled computing giant
that has been trying to turn itself around, reported its second quarter
earnings a few minutes ago, and they’re a mixed bag: Better than expected on
the bottom line, but weaker on the top. HP shares were rising by nearly 13
percent in early after-hours trading. A conference call with analysts
concluded just a little while ago. On it, CEO Meg Whitman and CFO Cathie
Lesjak reiterated that the turnaround roadmap they outlined at a meeting last
year is still going about as expected, and that it is and will remain a multi-
year plan. They’ve focused a lot of energy on paying down HP’s debt and
improving its operations while making the investments to inject new life into
its products lines. There were also questions about HP’s decision to avoid
fighting Dell in the PC business over pricing. Dell has recently said it was
getting aggressive in order to take share, while HP has apparently decided to
hold on to its profit margins at the expense of sales volume. It will also be
worth listening for hints of and adjustments in the strategy and timing of the
turnaround plan put in place by CEO Meg Whitman and outlined at last year’s
analyst’s meeting. Also, HP earlier today released a video with Whitman
summarizing the highlights of the quarter’s results. Here’s a partial
transcript of the conference call. 2:06 pm: Joining the conference call in
progress. Meg Whitman is speaking. She just said that Europe will continue to
be challenging and that China is starting to slow down. Meg says revenue run-
off in Enterprise Services will be slower than expected and will affect
overall revenue in 2014. In the Enterprise Group: Converged infrastructure is
the future. Also, the two server groups are being merged into one. Project
Moonshot lost during the quarter, but it will “take time to ramp.” But she’s
confident that it will work to HP’s advantage without cannibalizing the
existing server business. In networking, HP is a strong number two after Cisco
Systems, and its switching revenue is as much as the next five competitors
combined, she says. In software, Autonomy is stabilizing, and Vertica is
looking good. The business is “well positioned.” Autonomy landed All Nippon
Airways as a customer. Now she’s speaking about areas where HP’s performance
needs to improve. PCs is an area where it needs to fight harder. In mainstream
servers, HP suffered from the conditions of the market and was tripped up “by
our own execution.” In PCs, “We stepped away from many deals to protect our
bottom line.” One key difference between the first half of this year and the
first half of last year was that the PC industry roared back to life after
hard drive supplies were disrupted by the flooding in Thailand. 2:16 pm:
Whitman: “Overall our turnaround made progress in the second quarter.” Now CFO
Cathie Lesjak is speaking, and she’s running through the numbers again. “IT
spending softened and the macro-environment clearly did not improve.” Revenue
in most geographic regions was all down. Software was down some as the
industry is shifting to SAAS, Lesjak says. 2:29 pm: Revenue was down in
financial services. Lesjak is now talking about capital allocation and the
balance sheet: We delivered more than $5 billion in the first half of the
year, which is ahead of our previous guidance. But we do not expect this pace
to continue. Outlook: We remain confident in our ability to manage our cost
structure. We are still on track to achieve the savings we’ve planned, but
some business units are using these savings. Moonshot launch was very
successful, but we are not pleased with performance of x86 server sales.
Printing continues to perform well. Generally Lesjak expects lower
restructuring expenses. “We now expect 2013 free cash flow to be about $7.5
billion.” 2:35 pm: Now time for Q&A.; First question is from Katy Huberty of
Morgan Stanley. Do you still think you can get to revenue neutral in services?
Whitman: We are rebuilding ourselves amid some of the most profound changes to
hit the technology industry in a generation. The slower run-off in revenue
will hurt us, but if 3Par and other business units perform as we expect, we
expect to grow in 2014, but there will still be headwinds. Whitman talked
about some options for capital allocations. She says it’s mostly going to be
“returns based,” meaning a bias toward share buybacks and dividends, and not
M&A; activity. Question from J.P. Morgan. Again about services. What is your
confidence in the planned services leakage events happening in 2014? Can you
still unwind these planned attrition events? Basically he’s asking if some
ineffective service contracts will get fixed. Whitman: There is some
predictability coming that was not there in 2012. “The control of this
business is feeling better than it did before.” Whitman: “We are fixing a lot
of the problems that are keeping HP from being great. … This takes time. This
is an enormous organization.” Question from Sanford Bernstein: Could you
clarify your plan for balancing profitability vs. growth? What is the near to
medium term focus on share or profitability? Whitman: We’re here to set this
company up for the long term. In ISS (industry standard servers) we did walk
away from some deals that weren’t profitable. In terms of Technology Services,
one big headwind was the attach rate of support to sales of Business Critical
Services (BCS, a.k.a. the Itanium server business). Lesjak: We may well be
more aggressive in pricing on an industry standard server if we’re getting
attached to TS. We’ll take a lower margin based on the complete picture, and
the long-term outlook on the account. Question from Shannon Cross. More color
on currency effects. Also pricing on the printer front from the Japanese
companies. Lesjak: Currency is about a point to revenue. It had been two
points. “HP is exposed to a whole basket of currencies, and we have different
hedging strategies.” 2:49 pm: Lesjak: We think our cost savings in the second
half are creating a war chest for our Japanese competitors. Whitman: We’re
going to use that opportunity to fight back. Our competitors are more cost
competitive because of what has happened to the yen. Whitman: “The days of
ever-escalating IT budgets in government are over.” 3:03 pm: That’s it. Thanks
for tuning in. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hewlett-
packards-q2-earnings-conference-call/feed/ 0 HP's Q2 Earnings Beat
Expectations on Weak Sales http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hps-q2-earnings-
beat-expectations-on-weak-sales/
http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hps-q2-earnings-beat-expectations-on-weak-
sales/#comments Wed, 22 May 2013 20:16:07 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=324429 Quarterly results from Hewlett-Packard just
crossed the wires and they’re better than expected on the bottom line, but
weaker on the top. Per-share earnings were 87 cents, down 4.4 percent from a
year ago on sales of $27.6 billion, which amounts to a decline of 11 percent
from last year. The results are better than the consensus view of analysts,
which had called for EPS of 81 cents on revenue of $28.12 billion. The company
said it expects to earn between 84 cents and 87 cents per share in the current
quarter and to earn between $3.50 and $3.60 per share for the full year. As
expected, PC sales were pretty bad, with sales down 20 percent and a decrease
in volume of 21 percent, which was much worse than Dell’s results reported
last week. The PC unit generated a 3.2 percent operating margin. Printing
revenue declined by 1 percent, though operating margins were up to nearly 16
percent. Sales of commercial units fell 5 percent year over year (I think
that’s unit sales basis) and consumer units fell 13 percent. Revenue in the
enterprise group declined 10 percent. Networking grew 1 percent. Server sales
were down 12 percent in the industry standard group, while business critical
servers — the ones using Intel Itanium chips once so crucial to HP’s profit
profile — were down 37 percent. Storage revenue fell 13 percent. Enterprise
Services fell 8 percent. Software sales were down 3 percent. HP said it
finished the quarter with $13.6 billion in cash, and had $3.6 billion in
operating cash flow. It paid a dividend of 14.52 cents per share, up 10
percent from a year ago. HP shares are rising in after-hours trading. As of
4:17 pm ET, they were at $23.78, up 12 percent from the close of today’s
regular trading session. Here’s HP’s original announcement. PALO ALTO,
CA–(Marketwired – May 22, 2013) – HP (NYSE: HPQ) Second quarter non-GAAP
diluted earnings per share of $0.87, down 11% from the prior year, above
previously provided outlook of $0.80 to $0.82 per share Second quarter GAAP
diluted earnings per share of $0.55, down 31% from the prior year, above
previously provided outlook of $0.38 to $0.40 per share Second quarter net
revenue of $27.6 billion, down 10% from the prior year and down 9% when
adjusted for the effects of currency Cash flow from operations of $3.6
billion, up 44% from the prior year Returned $1.1 billion in cash to
shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases Improved operating
company net debt position by $1.8 billion, the fifth consecutive quarterly
reduction of over $1 billion Declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of
14.52 cents per share on the company’s common stock Information about HP’s use
of non-GAAP financial information is provided under “Use of non-GAAP financial
information” below. HP today announced financial results for its second fiscal
quarter ended April 30, 2013. Second quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share
(EPS) was $0.55, down from $0.80 in the prior-year period and above its
previously provided outlook of $0.38 to $0.40 per share. Second quarter non-
GAAP diluted EPS was $0.87, down from $0.98 in the prior-year period and above
its previously provided outlook of $0.80 to $0.82 per share. Second quarter
non-GAAP earnings information excludes after-tax costs of $621 million, or
$0.32 per diluted share, related to restructuring charges, amortization of
purchased intangible assets and acquisition-related charges. For the second
quarter, net revenue of $27.6 billion was down 10% year over year and down 9%
when adjusted for the effects of currency. “We beat the upper end of our non-
GAAP diluted EPS outlook for the quarter by $0.05 per share, driven by better
than expected performance in Enterprise Services and Printing, coupled with
the accelerated capture of restructuring savings and improvement in our
operations,” said Meg Whitman, HP president and chief executive officer.
Outlook For the third quarter of fiscal 2013, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted
EPS to be in the range of $0.84 to $0.87 and GAAP diluted EPS to be in the
range of $0.56 to $0.59. Third quarter fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted EPS
estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.28 per share, related
primarily to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring
charges and acquisition-related charges. For the full year fiscal 2013, HP
estimates non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.60 and GAAP
diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.50 to $2.60, in line with HP’s previously
communicated outlook. Full year fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates
exclude after-tax costs of approximately $1.00 per share, related primarily to
the amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring charges and
acquisition-related charges. “I am encouraged by our performance in the second
quarter, and I feel good about the rest of the year,” added Whitman. “As I
have said many times before, this is a multi-year journey. We have a long way
to go, but we are on track to deliver on our fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted
earnings per share outlook.” Asset Management HP generated $3.6 billion in
cash flow from operations in the second quarter, up 44% from the prior-year
period. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.0 billion, down 2 days year over
year to 26 days. Accounts receivable of $14.6 billion, down 1 day year over
year to 48 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $12.3 billion, up 4
days year over year to 53 days. HP’s dividend payment of $0.132 per share in
the second quarter resulted in cash usage of $283 million. HP also utilized
$797 million of cash during the quarter to repurchase approximately 36.3
million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with
$13.6 billion in gross cash. “After returning more than a billion dollars to
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends in the quarter, we
improved our operating company net debt position for the fifth successive
quarter,” said Whitman. “By the end of fiscal 2013, we expect our operating
company net debt to be below pre-Autonomy levels and approaching our goal of
approximately zero.” Declaration of Dividend HP also today announced that the
HP board of directors has declared a regular cash dividend of 14.52 cents per
share on the company’s common stock, which, as previously announced, reflects
a 10% increase in amount compared to the previous quarterly dividend amount.
The dividend, the third in HP’s fiscal year 2013, is payable on July 3, 2013,
to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 12, 2013. Second
Quarter Fiscal 2013 Segment Results Personal Systems revenue was down 20% year
over year with a 3.2% operating margin. Commercial revenue decreased 14%, and
Consumer revenue declined 29%. Total units were down 21% with Desktops units
down 18% and Notebooks units down 24%. Printing revenue declined 1% year over
year with a strong operating margin of 15.8%. Total hardware units were down
11% year over year. Commercial hardware units were down 5% year over year, and
Consumer hardware units were down 13% year over year. Enterprise Group revenue
declined 10% year over year with a 15.9% operating margin. Networking revenue
was up 1%, Industry Standard Servers revenue was down 12%, Business Critical
Systems revenue was down 37%, Storage revenue was down 13% and Technology
Services revenue was down 3% year over year. Enterprise Services revenue
declined 8% year over year with a 2.6% operating margin. Application and
Business Services revenue was down 10% year over year, and IT Outsourcing
revenue declined 6% year over year. Software revenue was down 3% year over
year with a 19.1% operating margin. Support revenue was up 12% while license
revenue was down 23% and services revenue was down 5% year over year. HP
Financial Services revenue was down 9% year over year with a 3% decrease in
net portfolio assets and a 24% decrease in financing volume. The business
delivered an operating margin of 11.0%. More information on HP’s earnings,
including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation,
is available on HP’s Investor Relations website at www.hp.com/investor/home.
HP’s Q2 FY13 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at
www.hp.com/investor/2013Q2webcast. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130522/hps-q2-earnings-beat-expectations-on-weak-
sales/feed/ 0 Amid Tech Slowdown, HP CEO Whitman Under Pressure to Show
Progress http://allthingsd.com/20130522/amid-tech-slowdown-hp-ceo-whitman-
under-pressure-to-show-progress/ http://allthingsd.com/20130522/amid-tech-
slowdown-hp-ceo-whitman-under-pressure-to-show-progress/#comments Wed, 22 May
2013 13:45:33 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=324339 Hewlett-Packard will
report second-quarter results today after the markets close for trading in New
York, and the pressure is on CEO Meg Whitman to show that she can keep the
floundering tech giant on track toward a promised turnaround next year. At the
outset, it seems a tall order. Name a significant line of HP’s business and
it’s probably in the middle of one sort of fundamental slowdown or another.
Whether it’s the historical decline in PC sales, a weak environment for server
sales, a lousy market for printers or ongoing difficulties with its enterprise
services business, HP has troubles in all four. Together, these troubled units
accounted for about 92 percent of HP’s sales last quarter. Add to the mix a
significant exposure to Europe, where the economy remains weak, and it becomes
incredibly difficult to feel hopeful for a pleasant surprise in HP’s results
today. Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak have been clear in past public statements
that there are no quick fixes for HP. And its rivals are taking advantage.
Dell unleashed a bit of a price war on the PC front, cutting prices
aggressively in order to take some market share ahead of its anticipated $24.4
billion go-private transaction. While Dell is willing to sacrifice
profitability, HP doesn’t seem to have responded, and so may have missed some
sales. As Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank Securities wrote in a note to
clients yesterday, “It appears HP is sacrificing share to protect near-term
margins.” Dell has also been bragging about its ability to take market share
away from HP on the server front. What HP has got going for it: Aggressive
cost management. Remember that HP surprised the Street with better-than-
expected cash flow in the first quarter of the year, giving the appearance
that the promised turnaround had begun in earnest. But much of that surprise
came from a one-time tax benefit that added a half-billion dollars to
operating cash flow. That is unlikely this quarter, so Whitmore is worried
that cash flow may come up short: “The combination of cash restructuring
payments, headwinds from revenue declines in PCs impacting working capital and
cash cycle and the absence of favorable factors in Q1 (tax deferrals, bonus
payments, etc) may result in worse than expected cash flow,” he wrote.
Analysts expect HP to report 81 cents per share on sales of $28.12 billion. A
miss on either the top or bottom line will probably freak out shareholders
impatient to see some tangible sign that, despite having survived the worst
year in its history, HP can yet be salvaged, and that Whitman is the one to
get the job done. HP shares opened up slightly this morning at $21.21 a share.
I talked about all this a little this morning on CNBC. The video is below: ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130522/amid-tech-slowdown-hp-ceo-whitman-under-
pressure-to-show-progress/feed/ 0 HP Board Members Survive Shareholder
Challenge http://allthingsd.com/20130320/liveblog-hp-faces-its-restive-
shareholders/ http://allthingsd.com/20130320/liveblog-hp-faces-its-restive-
shareholders/#comments Wed, 20 Mar 2013 20:54:54 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=305432 Hewlett-Packard’s shareholder meeting at the
Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., is now over. All the
directors have been reelected, though a few by very thin margins. Director
Marc Andreessen got a 69.77 percent yes vote. John Hammergren had the smallest
margin, receiving a vote of 53.91 percent in favor of his remaining on the
board. Chairman Ray Lane got 58.88 percent of yes votes. G. Kennedy Thompson
received a 55.15 percent vote in favor of his remaining on the board. As proxy
votes go this is about as close as you can come without actually removing a
director. If nothing else, it’s hard for HP’s board not to have received the
message loud and clear that shareholders were sending about the Autonomy deal
and other difficulties the company has faced. Here are some highlights from
the day’s events. 1:59 pm: So it’s nearly 2 pm here in Mountain View, Calif.,
and we’re waiting for HP’s shareholder meeting to get under way. Still
waiting. The light FM jazz just stopped playing and now the audience is quiet.
Aaaand just like that, onstage there’s Meg Whitman, Ray Lane, CFO Cathie
Lesjak, chief legal counsel John Schultz and I think Rajiv Gupta from the
board of directors. Actually it’s not Rajiv Gupta, but a deputy general
counsel whose name I don’t know. John Schultz is speaking and is asking
shareholders to observe meeting rules. He’s talking about the three
shareholder proposals. Those who wish to speak in support or against the
proposals can do so for only about five minutes. More formalities to get the
meeting going. A quorum is declared present. And the meeting can officially
get started. Now the slate of directors is up. All 11 directors are up for
reelection to the board. The second order of business is to re-appoint Ernst
and Young as HP’s auditor. There are some proxy firms and other shareholder
groups that are advising against that, in part because they blame Ernst and
Young for failing to foresee some of the mess that was the Autonomy
acquisition. Other items of business is the say on pay proposal, a stock
compensation plan and the formation of a human rights committee. A shareholder
is now speaking in favor of the human rights proposal. It deals with how HP
does business in China and other countries with oppressive political regimes.
Schultz is speaking, and says that the creation of another committee to
oversee human rights issues isn’t in the business of shareholders. Another
human rights proposal is up, submitted by a set of religious groups. A
reverence whose name I didn’t quite catch is now speaking about it. “We have
noted HP’s policies to human rights and related to supply chain and equal
opportunity.” 2:20 pm: I’m paraphrasing what he says: He’s speaking on behalf
of a proposal that would require HP to report in more detail on supply chain
issues, making sure that workers employed by suppliers are protected. HP
reports on a lot of this stuff already, but he’s pushing for a lot more
detail. Often, he says, confidentiality rules prevent HP from disclosing
exactly how it evaluates its human rights policies with suppliers. Schultz is
speaking again and says the company opposes the proposal. Now another
shareholder proposal, this one about retirement plans. Schultz is speaking
again, opposing the latest proposal. And getting the voting under way. 2:32
pm: Okay, CEO Meg Whitman is speaking. Her remarks are starting with a video.
Meg again: “Most of you know that I’ve been CEO for 18 months. I’ve come to
love this company.” “I’ve now met with 300 or 400 customers around the globe,
and they tell me they want HP to win.” “Some of our customers have operations
in 150 or 160 countries, and they want a partner that can match them every
step of the way.” Now on to innovation. “Did you know that HP was the top of
the list for patents obtained in 2012 in Silicon Valley, and No. 50
worldwide.” “But we have to do more, better, faster.” “Third, I’ve found that
HP has tremendous foundational assets, and talented and committed employees.
And lastly despite what you may have read, we’re on a solid financial
footing.” “The biggest thing I’ve learned in the last year, is that together
we truly make it matter.” “There is still room for improvement. Fiscal 2012
results were not where they needed to be.” Whitman: Partners are crucial to
our future and we need to embrace them like never before. Whitman is now
revisiting the plan she laid out at the analysts meeting last year. Whitman:
The good news is, we said what we said we would do in 2012. We took action,
and took our medicine, and met our guidance. 2:40 pm: Whitman: We expect 2014
will be characterized by recovery and expansion. 2:41 pm: In 2015 we expect
you’ll see a rapid acceleration of growth and innovation. Whitman is now
reiterating the financial results. Whitman: Net debt position has improved to
$4.7 billion. But we’re not done. We have a long way to go. First is creating
solid product roadmaps that change how IT is designed and built. We are
reigniting the powerhouse of HP, which is the channel. Whitman: Why I’m so
confident about our strategy: We are living in a period of enormous change.
Big shifts in how technology is consumed, used and paid for. Whitman: It feels
like a bigger change than what I saw at eBay. Whitman: We will succeed because
only HP can provide the solutions for the new style of IT. We are the only
company that can bring our customers devices, services, software all at once.
2:48 pm: Whitman is closing her remarks. It has essentially been a repeat of
the same speech she’s been giving since HP reported its most recent quarter.
Whitman is closing with some nice praise of HP employees, who “continue to
innovate through thick and thin.” She’s now wrapped up. Time for a Q and A
with the shareholders. I see about seven people queuing up to the mics from
where I’m sitting. A question about the data center business. Now about 15
people lining up for questions. The questioner opines: Over the last two or
three years I’ve lost lost half the value of my HP shares. Whitman: One of the
question you’re asking is if you’re better off with a vertical stack versus a
commitment to open standards. One of the strengths of this company is the
hardware business and the commitment to open standards and open architecture.
Whitman: Now she’s talking about Moonshot, the tiny servers using Atom or ARM
chips and which use less power, and take up a lot less space. It’s disruptive
innovation, she says. Whitman is now talking about the 3Par storage business,
which tends to simplify enterprise storage. Whitman: We are actually sold out
of our mid-tier storage product. We haven’t been sold out of a product in
quite a long time. Whitman: We are also the leader in software defined
networking. Question: What is the board’s thinking with regard to nominating
an independent chairman? Whitman: I came to HP at a difficult time. My view
about the board is that they are helping to turn HP around. Whitman: This
group is helping me lead the transition. Once you decide how you’re going to
run your company, you have to get everyone marching in the same direction.
Another question: Change to Win is up. Bill Patterson is speaking. “A strong
opposition vote will be delivered to several directors who were involved in
overseeing the Autonomy acquisition. In the event that some directors don’t
receive a majority vote, the board should comment on that and what it intends
to do going forward.” 3:02 pm: Patterson is still speaking. These shareholder
rights are of limited value that the company can demonstrate that it has
active independent directors. Will the board comment in the event of a strong
opposition vote? Meg just called on director Ralph Whitworth, the activist
investor, who owns a lot of shares. He says that he bought the shares and
approached the company. He offered himself as a director and Meg and Chairman
Ray Lane were up for it. “You can expect some evolution of the board in the
coming weeks or months.” 3:06 pm: Whitworth: I hope you will respect the
results today and work with us to make this company stronger and more
valuable. More questions. SEIU union trust, a pension fund. Can you confirm
that Whitworth has been appointed to a special committee to investigate the
Autonomy acquisition. There’s a concern that directors who were involved with
that deal not be on that committee. John Schultz confirms a special committee
has been formed. Whitworth, Gary Reiner and G. Kennedy Thompson are on it.
Schultz: The independence of this committee is passed on by a court of law. We
believe the committee has the right scope of charter, and the members are the
right ones in place consistent with the law. The questioner is expressing
“grave concern” that Thompson should not be on the committee. A former HP
employee, one who dates back to what he calls “the good old days,” would like
HP to celebrate its 75 anniversary. Lots of applause. Whitman: We have an
employee committee on that. Another question. Seven more people in the line.
Latest questioner asking about human rights, surveillance in less developed
countries. “Never ever admit that David Packard is most admired for cutting 10
percent off expenses, and cutting his own compensation.” The questioner is
suggesting the elimination of health insurance brokers somewhere in the
employee benefit process. Now 10 more people waiting in line to ask questions.
The “question” is more or less turning into a political diatribe about health
care policy. Whitman is cutting her off and asking her to get to the point.
3:15 pm: She’s basically trying to get Whitman to support a single payer
health insurance scheme. Another question from a Presbyterian Minister.
Something about never voting against the State of Israel. However, he says, HP
is selling its products in a way that support the “occupation” of Palestine.
He’s asking for transparency, which he says is lacking in the Proxy statement
on how products are being used. Whitman is pointing out an HP exec who is
responsible for responses to questions like this, to address his concerns.
Another question from a shareholder and retiree. “My portfolio has taken a
dramatic fall. Regardless of this, I marked a ballot to support everything the
board recommends.” He’d now like to read something published in 1976. He’s
asking Whitman to stand up for the old HP Way. “It turns out its really hard
to kill founder DNA. … We are at our core an engineering company.” Question
from a representative for the AFL-CIO fund. Can you address how the board
expects the biggest vote against an S&P; auditor in a long time? It’s a
question about the proposal to dump Ernst and Young as an auditor. Whitman:
When we do an outside enterprise deal, we have to have someone certify the
financials. To have someone other than our auditor do it, it’s not a good use
of your money. It would be duplicative to have someone else do it. Question:
What other boards does Whitman serve on? How do you justify the time spent on
other boards. Whitman: After I lost the governor’s race [in California] I was
asked to go on a lot of boards and I did. I have been reducing my committments
to other boards. She used to be on the board of ZipCar and is now off that as
the company has been sold. The remaining corporate board I sit on is Proctor
and Gamble and that is good for HP. It’s good to see another big company
struggling. The same questioner is a fan of his HP 20S calculator. “It’s an
example of the HP Way. I’d like to see that return.” Whitman: I came to set
this company up for the next 75 years. This company is an icon of American
business. We are important around the globe. One last question and then it’s
time to announce the results of the vote. Last question is from a guy who
lived across the street from David Packard. Apparently,he’d like to sell a
company to HP. Whitman is laughing. Whitman is referring him to CFO Cathie
Lesjak. Proxy vote time. This is the moment of truth. A few stragglers are
still voting. 3:29 pm: Polls are closed. Chairman Ray Lane is announcing the
results based on the preliminary tally. Directors first. All have received at
least 50 percent. All 11 directors have survived. 3:31 pm: And Ernst and Young
has been renominated as HP’s auditor. The directors and Ernst and Young were
the two big items. We don’t yet know what the percentages were on the various
directors who had been targeted by ISS, Glass Lewis, Calpers and others.
What’s left is the proposals on human rights committees. Less than 4 percent
voted in favor. It’s pretty much going as the company recommended. Patterson
from Change to Win is asking for the percentages on the director votes. Lane
is declaring the business of the meeting concluded. That ends the meeting. And
we’re done! ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130320/liveblog-hp-faces-its-restive-
shareholders/feed/ 0 HP May Be Debt-Free This Year, CFO Lesjak Says
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/hp-may-be-debt-free-this-year-cfo-lesjak-says/
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/hp-may-be-debt-free-this-year-cfo-lesjak-
says/#comments Fri, 22 Feb 2013 01:33:14 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=297135
I just had a quick chat with Hewlett-Packard CFO Cathie Lesjak, and we ran
through a couple of the key points from the earnings announcement HP released
a few hours ago. Here are a few highlights from our conversation: Earnings: At
82 cents a share, HP pretty much blew out its earnings versus the consensus of
Wall Street analysts, which was 71 cents. But that also amounts to a 15
percent beat on the high end of HP’s own guidance for the quarter. “That is
one of the biggest beats I’ve seen at HP,” Lesjak said. Cash flow: Cash flow
from operations improved to $2.6 billion. That’s especially good news, Lesjak
said, because the first quarter of the year tends to be seasonally weaker than
others on the cash flow front. Net debt: There’s been a lot of worry of late
about HP’s debt situation. Debt investors over the summer started paying ever-
higher prices to insure against the possibility, however remote, of a default.
On paper, HP’s long-term debt is still rather high: $21.8 billion, or about 65
percent of market cap as of Thursday’s close. But out of that, only $4.7
billion is debt derived from the operating company, the portion of HP that
makes stuff and sells it. The rest is incurred for the purpose of HP Finance,
the unit that lends money to help customers pay for HP products and services.
Lesjak said there’s a pretty good chance that, on that basis, HP will be debt-
free by the end of 2013. “Our goal is roughly zero,” she said. And, as Lesjak
said on the conference call, when that happens, there’s a new round of
decisions to be made, such as, what to do with the cash from operations that’s
flowing in. HP will have to start thinking about other ways to use that cash,
such as increasing the dividend payments, buying back more shares, or maybe
thinking about buying another company. That’s a good problem to have. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/hp-may-be-debt-free-this-year-cfo-lesjak-
says/feed/ 0 HP Did "Better Than We Expected We Would," Whitman Says
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/liveblogging-hps-q1-2013-earnings-call/
http://allthingsd.com/20130221/liveblogging-hps-q1-2013-earnings-
call/#comments Thu, 21 Feb 2013 21:59:12 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=297153
As noted earlier, Hewlett-Packard released its earnings results for the first
quarter of its fiscal year a little while ago, and they’re surprisingly good.
HP shares are rising after hours on word that the company rather handily beat
its own expectations and those of the Street. The consensus view called for it
to report 71 cents a share in per-share earnings. HP came in at 82 cents.
Sales were also ahead of the consensus, despite the fact that revenue fell in
nearly every significant business segment. Still, don’t harsh HP’s buzz with
too many details. There’s more to crow about: Net debt of the operating
company came down by $1 billion to $4.7 billion, and it’s looking like HP will
be close to zero debt for the operating company this year. The results if
nothing else buy Meg Whitman and her team some time to quiet the critics who
say HP should be split into two or more companies in order to unlock value.
That buzz was prominent late in the trading session as rumors flew that a
breakup announcement might accompany earnings. As careful AllThingsD readers
might have already guessed, a breakup isn’t in the cards, at least not for the
time being. The conference call with analysts is about to get under way
momentarily and I’m listening in. Expect lots of questions about the balance
sheet, and probably more chatter about the breakup idea. One bit of
housekeeping: Since I’m in New York, the time stamps are set to Eastern
Standard Time. Earlier: 5:05 pm: Joining the call in progress. CEO Meg Whitman
is speaking. She says the restructuring program put in place last year is
having the desired effect. Whitman: We improved operating company net debt
position for the fourth consecutive quarter. Whitman: Revenue from converged
storage products was up 18 percent. Whitman: In servers, business stabilized.
We expect to grow market share by 1 percentage point this year. Whitman:
Networking showed continued growth, up 6 percent. I was also pleased with
performance improvements in printing. New business models and new printers
helped boost operating margins. One thing that changed in developing markets
is that the price of hardware has increased while the price of ink has
dropped. That’s the Ink Advantage program she’s talking about. Whitman: PCs
gained 1.4 percentage points of share world wide, and 4 points in the U.S.
Whitman: Total enterprise services exceeded expectations. There is still a
long way to go, but I believe that ES (the former EDS) will deliver on the
recovery plan put in place last year. Whitman: We are making significant
investments to improve our channel partner programs. Whitman: If we can
mobilize HPs 300,000+ employees there is nothing we can’t do. Whitman:
Turnarounds happen when old and new customers believe. In HP’s case customers
are really starting to believe. We saw a number of big wins including one with
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Another is eyewear company Luxottica
(sorry if I misspelled that), which hired HP to run its data centers. Whitman:
We clearly still face a long road ahead. I don’t like that we saw revenue
declines in all our business lines. Restoring growth is a priority and we’re
on it. Whitman: It will be toward the end of the year before the recovery plan
starts showing up on the top line. 5:14 pm: Whitman: There are a lot of
reasons we are in the PC market. She’s addressing again why there won’t be a
spinoff of the PC business. Whitman: Pricing continues to be very competitive.
In Enterprise Group, we are seeing a tepid market in Europe for servers.
Whitman: We will now be breaking out converged storage from traditional
storage to better show the growth there. 5:17 pm: Now Whitman is talking about
the hiring of Larry Stack to reignite sales in the Enterprise Services group.
(Wonder where you read about that first? You got it: AllThingsD.) Whitman: Now
talking about HP Labs under its new head Martin Fink. Whitman: Talking about
Project Moonshot. We expect this to truly revolutionize the economics of the
data center. Whitman: If just 10 large web services switched to Moonshot
servers, they could save $120 million a year, and 100 million (?) metric tons
of CO2 released into the atmosphere, because it consumes so much less power
than prior models. Whitman: I’m pleased about Q1 and feel good about the rest
of the year. Now CFO Cathie Lesjak is speaking. Lesjak: At the highest level,
I would characterize this quarter as one more data point in our consistent,
but not linear, recovery plan. Lesjak: Now she’s talking about some new
reporting information disclosures. Lesjak: (Going through the numbers again.)
From a global economic perspective, we are still seeing headwinds, but some
healthier pockets. 5:23 pm: R&D; spending declined, though it was because of
some tax credits and some contract accelerations in Q4. Lesjak: Europe was a
challenge, but we continue to see good signs in Asia-Pacific and Japan.
Lesjak: Decline in printer revenue is partially due to a shift toward higher-
end printers and away from lower-priced ones. Lesjak: Again, solid growth in
server sales in Asia, especially in China. Lesjak: Talking more about the
storage business. Q1 was the fourth consecutive quarter where margins
expanded. Now Business Critical Servers. Phase two of the trial with Oracle is
expected in Q2, which will address Oracle’s breach of contract and damages.
(Though Oracle lost the first phase of the trial, it has promised to appeal
the decision.) Lesjak: In services, we have moved away from unprofitable
contracts. Lesjak: We saw strong growth in security and big data software
offerings. Now talking about cash and capital allocation. $253 million went
back to shareholders through share repurchases, and $258 million via the
dividend. Net debt is now $4.7 billion at the operating company level. Lesjak:
As we’ve said, 2013 is a fix-and-rebuild year. There are market and macro
pressure and some of the ES changes are being delayed. And now we’re heading
into Q&A.; Question from Bill Shope of Goldman Sachs; he’s asking about the
breakup idea. Whitman: We have no plans to break up the company. (Heard
that??) HP is better and stronger together. Whitman: We have a terrific set of
assets. When you think about our brand, our scale, our distribution, and
importantly the customers want this company to be together. We feel strongly
it’s better together. Katy Huberty of Morgan Stanley: Earnings on the back
half of the year look like they may come down. What else makes you cautious
about the back half of the year? Lesjak: It’s really about Enterprise Services
not having the runoff in Q1 that we expected. There’s also some challenges
about the timing of signings. Lesjak: There’s some cautious optimism there.
5:44 pm: Toni Sacconaghi of Bernstein: Where are you in your cost savings?
Lesjak: The non-labor savings are coming in later this year. Question from Ben
Reitzes of Barclays: I understand why you want to keep guidance in place, but
why not raise the free cash flow target above $5 billion? Lesjak: Glad you
pointed out the operating cash flow. We’re happy with it, up 115 percent.
We’ve really gotten a lot of discipline. We don’t typically update our cash
flow mid year. Best way to think about it is that it was a very big deposit on
the year. Question from Shannon Cross: How will you judge the success of the
OfficeJet ProX printer platform? How do you think about this versus your laser
platform? Whitman: This is an exciting opportunity because it prints at the
speed and quality of a laster. We’re going to drive it as hard as we can.
We’re going to measure the units installed. With regard to laser we have a
great laser lineup, but if there is cannibalization; that’s the way business
goes. If there’s going to be cannibalization, better we do it to ourselves
than someone do it to us. Missed a question there. Sorry about that. 5:53 pm:
Question about Enterprise systems sales. Whitman reminds us that BCS sales got
whacked again. But there’s a good product lineup coming. Waiting for another
mention of Moonshot. Whitman: We have to make the right investments because
it’s a big piece of HP’s profitability. (Lesjak just mentioned in the answer
to the previous question that PSG accounts for only 10 percent of HP’s
operating profitability.) Another question, this one from Mark Moskowitz of
J.P. Morgan. Clearly your net debt position is improving nicely. How are you
thinking about investment internally from R&D; and acquisitions? Whitman: For
2013, we’re still focused on rebuilding the balance sheet and offsetting
dilution. We’re going to stay focused on fixing what we have. You never say
never, maybe there’s a tuck-in acquisition we have to have, but there’s
nothing in the plan. Also, one thing we have to stop doing at HP is increase
R&D; and then pulling it back, and then repeating that. We’re going to stay on
the plan that we have. Question from Brian Marshall at ISI about the software
business, where he’s seeing some deceleration of growth. Whitman: The bright
spots in software are Vertica and security. Apps and ops are not where we want
them to be. We need to make some changes that will kick in by 2014. We have
some basic blocking and tackling there. Steve Milunovich asking about PC
supplies and inventory. Lesjak: Channel inventory on PCs, overall it’s good.
On the consumer side, despite the fact we gained share in consumer we ended a
bit higher than we would like. The real star is the channel inventory in
printing. We have been dogged by ink supplies inventory being too high for
several quarters. Now its down 27 percent since the peak. We’ve had dollar
declines over the last six quarters. Whitman: One of the things we’ve asked
the business groups to do is limit discounting to get products out the door.
It’s healthier for us and better for the channel. It also allows us to
differentiate our ink and toner product and get away from the commoditization
we were expecting about 18 months ago. Final question from Credit Suisse:
About free cash flow. Given the improvement, it looks like you will pay down
most of your debt. If you are generating $6 billion to $7 billion in free cash
flow each year, how dedicated are you to increasing dividends and buybacks?
Lesjak: At the end of the year we’ll be thinking about how we allocate capital
around the time of the next analyst meeting. We are committed to returning
cash to shareholders. Our view around dividends is that over the long term,
our payout ratio should improve as well. We are aligned and working with the
board to determine the mix. 6:05 pm: Closing remarks from Whitman: The
turnaround is on track and we did better than we expected we would. We have to
deliver and continue to execute as an organization. And we’re done. See you
next quarter! ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130221/liveblogging-
hps-q1-2013-earnings-call/feed/ 0 "The Narrative Lags the Reality" in HP
Turnaround Effort, CEO Whitman Says (Video)
http://allthingsd.com/20130116/the-narrative-lags-the-reality-in-hp-
turnaround-effort-ceo-whitman-says/ http://allthingsd.com/20130116/the-
narrative-lags-the-reality-in-hp-turnaround-effort-ceo-whitman-says/#comments
Wed, 16 Jan 2013 17:04:25 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=286050 Hewlett-
Packard CEO Meg Whitman argued once again for patience in her effort to get
her troubled company back on its feet, saying that what people say and think
about the company now is several steps behind the company’s actual condition.
“The narrative lags the reality,” Whitman said in an interview at The Wall
Street Journal’s CIO Network conference in San Diego. But the narrative will
only change as the company delivers on results that she has promised. Having
taken more than $17 billion in combined write-downs for the acquisitions of
EDS and Autonomy, 2012 has been portrayed by Whitman and HP CFO Cathie Lesjak
as the year during which all the bad news was tackled, and 2013 is to be the
year when the arduous work of repairing the company begins in earnest. Whitman
sounded a note of confidence: “We’ve got the right people in the right jobs at
the right time, and you can feel it. … But we have to be patient.” Whitman
also said that HP “paid too much” for Autonomy, the British software company
for which it spent north of $11 billion in 2011. About $5.5 billion of HP’s
$8.8 billion write-down announced in November was attributed to that
acquisition. Whitman reiterated HP’s argument that Autonomy misrepresented
itself, making it appear to be more valuable than it was, and fooled auditors
at Deloitte who were vetting Autonomy’s books. “The auditor wasn’t exactly a
Brand X auditor, and did you ever dream that the financials would have
represented the true financial state of the company?” Below are some video
highlights: ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130116/the-narrative-lags-the-reality-
in-hp-turnaround-effort-ceo-whitman-says/feed/ 0 HP CEO Whitman Earned $15
Million in 2012, Filing Shows http://allthingsd.com/20130111/hp-ceo-whitman-
earned-15-million-in-2012-filing-shows/ http://allthingsd.com/20130111/hp-ceo-
whitman-earned-15-million-in-2012-filing-shows/#comments Sat, 12 Jan 2013
02:43:17 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=284748 Hewlett-Packard’s preliminary
proxy form was filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and there’s a few interesting highlights. The filing shows that CEO Meg
Whitman earned more than $15.3 million during 2012, even though her base
salary was only $1. The majority of her pay came in the form of share and
options grants worth more than $13 million, almost none of which are yet
vested. She also earned a $1.7 million bonus under HP’s PfR or “Pay for
Results” bonus plan. Under that plan, bonuses are awarded based on performance
metrics including revenue, free-cash flow and achievement of management by
objective (MBO) goals. There was also $220,000 in miscellaneous income, most
of which had to do with her use of HP’s aircraft. CFO Cathie Lesjak earned
$6.7 million, which included her base salary of $825,011 per year plus
$978,000 worth of stock options that vested during the year, plus $519,000
under the PfR bonus plan. She received another $4.8 million in combined share
grants and options. The combined package is smaller than the $10 million she
earned in salary, bonuses and options awards in 2010. Enterprise business head
Dave Donatelli earned the same base salary as Lesjak, but also received $1.15
million worth of stock options that vested during the year, plus another
$519,000 under the PfR bonus plan and nearly $6 million worth of share grants
and options. John Hinshaw, the EVP who joined HP from Boeing in 2011, earned a
combined $8.2 million in 2012, including $5.1 million in share grants and
options. He has recently been tasked with cutting $3.5 billion out of HP’s
annual operating budget by the end of 2014. Todd Bradley, head of the Printing
and Personal Systems Group, earned $7.4 million including $2.7 million in
share grants and options. His base salary was $850,000 and he earned a PfR
bonus of $587,000. The filing also shows what two exiting execs were paid on
their way out the door. Former head of the printing unit Vyomesh “VJ” Joshi,
pushed out in a significant shakeup in March, collected $1.6 million in
severance. He is also receiving about $3.3 million in four equal cash
installment payments that end in October of 2013. He left HP owning 1.4
million shares worth, more than $22 million as of Friday’s closing price.
Another former executive collecting severance pay is John Visentin. He is the
former head of Enterprise services, named by former CEO Léo Apotheker. He was
fired after HP took an $8 billion charge to write down the value of EDS. That
unit, acquired under former CEO Mark Hurd for $13.9 billion in 2008, has been
a bit of an albatross around HP’s neck of late. Last year the unit was
implicated in an embarrassing foul-up with an Australian bank that required
Whitman to fly to Australia. Visentin was paid a combined $8.3 million,
including a base salary of $800,000 and a $2 million bonus connected to his
promotion to Executive Vice President. HP also reimbursed him $127,311 for the
deposit he made on a house he sought to buy in California, but on which he
never closed. He lost out on $3.8 million in combined share grants and
options, which were canceled and did not vest when he left. He departed HP
owning a little more than 20,000 shares, worth about $330,000. There are other
interesting tidbits in the filing. For one thing, there’s a new policy
proposal being put to shareholders that allows any person or group of up to 20
people who own at least 3 percent of HP shares and who has owned them for at
least three years to nominate a slate of directors of as much as 20 percent of
the board. The proposal, which requires a vote of two-thirds of all
shareholders, is a victory for activist investors over proxy access.
Previously, HP shareholders could only vote on the slate of directors
nominated by the company. Now if enough shareholders are unhappy, they can
nominate their own group of new directors. It has been a long-simmering
controversy in corporate governance circles. Proponents have argued proxy
access improves returns to shareholders by forcing boards to be more
responsive to them, lest they lose their seats. Without proxy access,
investors who want to shake up a board’s membership have been forced to wage
expensive public campaigns to sway the votes of shareholders and have had to
pay for distributing their own ballots. As of now, there are only three
investors who own enough to meet the 3 percent standard, and they’re all
institutional shareholders: Investment firm Dodge and Cox owns 6 percent of
HP’s outstanding shares, State Street Corp. owns 5.4 percent and investment
firm Blackrock owns 5.2 percent. HP’s fourth-largest investor, who owns 1.8
percent, already has a seat on the board. Ralph Whitworth, the activist
investor with a history of agitating for breaking up the companies he invests
in, joined HP’s board in November of 2011. And all indications are that he’s
supportive of Whitman and her plans to turn HP around over the next few years.
Besides, any board shakeups he may wish to carry out will have to wait for
awhile: He doesn’t yet own 3 percent. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20130111/hp-
ceo-whitman-earned-15-million-in-2012-filing-shows/feed/ 0 The Pressure Is on
HP to Stand and Deliver in 2013 http://allthingsd.com/20121231/the-pressure-
is-on-hp-to-stand-and-deliver-in-2013/ http://allthingsd.com/20121231/the-
pressure-is-on-hp-to-stand-and-deliver-in-2013/#comments Mon, 31 Dec 2012
16:20:21 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=281475 Today marks the end of what has
been without a doubt the worst year in Hewlett-Packard’s corporate history.
You could argue that 2011, marked by the brief period that Léo Apotheker was
CEO, was worse in many ways, and that the difficulties the company struggled
to correct in 2012 were created in the prior year. But by all the metrics that
count, the year now ending was a whopper: Sales on an annual basis fell by
more than 5 percent to $120.4 billion, and on a GAAP basis it swung from a $7
billion profit to a $12.6 billion loss. Much of those losses can be attributed
to a combined $17 billion in write-downs taken during the second half of the
year. The biggest was the $8.8 billion write-down announced on Nov. 20, of
which $5.7 billion was attributed to Autonomy, the British software firm HP
acquired for north of $11 billion in 2011. Another $8 billion was the result
of an impairment charge related to EDS, the IT services concern HP acquired in
2008 for $14 billion. If 2012 was the year that HP sought to package up all
the toxic accounting and financial disclosures it could find, then 2013 either
will or won’t be the year where it starts down the path toward recovery and
turnaround. While HP is technically shut down now for the holidays, people
I’ve talked to there in recent days tell me that the internal message being
broadcast to employees at all levels is consistent: This year, everyone has to
deliver. Investors frustrated by the decline in value in HP’s shares in 2012 —
at $13.68, as of Friday’s close, the shares are down nearly 49 percent this
year — have largely come to terms with the notion that HP had to suffer
through a horrible year in order to begin the arduous process of rebuilding
its business and balance sheet, though the company and its CEO, Meg Whitman,
have essentially exhausted their indulgences. At a meeting of financial
analysts in October, Whitman portrayed 2013 as a “fix and rebuild” year, and
so the fixing and rebuilding will, a year from now, have to be apparent. The
problem with that is that in the very same speech, Whitman projected profit
declines in 2013. The difficulty is clear in nearly every single line of HP’s
business. While each line of business remains profitable — take out the
combined $20.3 billion in impairment and restructuring charges on HP’s
financial statements, and you see a $7.7 billion operating profit — sales in
practically all of them declined by a range of 2 percent (services) to 10
percent (PCs). That’s unlikely to change in the face of an uncertain global
economy. HP makes about 65 percent of its sales outside the U.S., and has
historically had the widest exposure to Europe of all the major tech
companies. So, if 2013 goes according to Whitman’s recovery plan, what does it
look like? For one thing, expect a boost in research-and-development spending.
Whitman has made it clear that she thinks that R&D; spending as a percentage
of sales has been trimmed further in recent years than it should have been. In
2004, R&D; spending at HP amounted 4.5 percent of sales. By fiscal 2010, it
was 2.3 percent. In 2012, it was 2.8 percent. CFO Cathie Lesjak has said
spending will be boosted in 2013, along with increased spending on internal IT
infrastructure. Also, expect more restructuring. The bulk of the 29,000 jobs
cut at HP will take place during 2013, which will incur about $1.5 billion
worth of restructuring charges. All in all, it’s going to make 2013 a tough
year for HP, though if it has any good luck at all, it will be less difficult
and drama-filled than 2012. Analysts expect HP’s sales in its 2013 fiscal year
(ending in October) to decline again to just north of $112 billion and, on
average, they expect per-share profits on a non-GAAP basis to be $3.31. By
October it should be clear if the repair work undertaken is having any effect.
Costs will be decreased. Most of the restructuring will be complete and, with
luck, the global economic picture will have improved, if only slightly. If
HP’s official guidance for fiscal 2014 doesn’t begin to look optimistic,
that’s when talk of an endgame — really only speculative now — will begin in
earnest. So far, Whitman’s argument has been that HP is stronger as a combined
unit than it could ever be if split into two or more pieces. If results and
guidance aren’t looking up by late 2013, shareholders will start looking for
alternatives, and a breakup will be at the top of their list. One person who
might lead that discussion is director Ralph Whitworth. An activist investor
with a history of pushing companies into breakup strategies, Whitworth’s
Relational Investors LLC owns about 34.5 million HP shares. That investment is
about $318 million under water as of Friday’s closing price. Late in 2013, a
two-year agreement he has with HP not to seek a breakup or sale of any
significant assets will expire. If his patience with HP’s management and
strategy wavers at all, expect the breakup conversation to get serious
quickly, and to dominate media coverage about it into 2014. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121231/the-pressure-is-on-hp-to-stand-and-deliver-
in-2013/feed/ 0 Mike Lynch Punches Back at Today's HP Filing: Whither $5B
Writedown? http://allthingsd.com/20121227/mike-lynch-punches-back-at-todays-
hps-filing-whither-5b-writedown/ http://allthingsd.com/20121227/mike-lynch-
punches-back-at-todays-hps-filing-whither-5b-writedown/#comments Fri, 28 Dec
2012 01:32:29 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=281075 Autonomy founder Mike
Lynch is still not backing down in his ongoing battle with Hewlett-Packard.
“Simply put, these allegations are false, and in the absence of further detail
we cannot understand what HP believes to be the basis for them,” he said in a
statement, as well as aiming at $5 billion in writedowns the company has taken
related to the controversial deal. “We continue to reject these allegations in
the strongest possible terms.” Lynch’s latest volley was prompted by a
regulatory filing HP made earlier today, noting that the U.S. Department of
Justice was indeed investigating its acquisition of British software company,
for which it is trying to write down about $5 billion in expenses due to
alleged “serious accounting improprieties.” HP had taken the case to U.S.
federal authorities in the first place, but now it’s official. This caused
Lynch, who has been vociferously battling the Silicon Valley tech giant over
the allegations and rejecting HP’s claims of fraud in the $12 billion
acquisition, to respond again. In his statement, he presented a laundry list
of arguments about how HP is trying to fool investors by pointing the finger
at him. Here’s his whole thing, so you can read for yourself: It is extremely
disappointing that HP has again failed to provide a detailed calculation of
its $5 billion write-down of Autonomy, or publish any explanation of the
serious allegations it has made against the former management team, in its
annual report filing today. Furthermore, it is now less clear how much of the
$5 billion write-down is in fact being attributed to the alleged accounting
issues, and how much to other changes in business performance and earnings
projections. This appears to be a material change in HP’s allegations. Simply
put, these allegations are false, and in the absence of further detail we
cannot understand what HP believes to be the basis for them. We also do not
understand why HP is raising these issues now given that Autonomy reported
into the HP Finance team from the day the acquisition completed in October
2011, there was an extensive due diligence process and Autonomy was audited as
a public company for many years. We would particularly make the following
points: * HP’s CFO Cathie Lesjak and her team, plus a number of outside
advisors, had access to all Autonomy accounts and documents from October 2011
onwards, and raised no issues. * Beginning in November 2011, HP and KPMG
reviewed Autonomy’s closing balance sheet in detail, and Ernst & Young
reviewed Deloitte’s audit work papers. * Beginning in October 2011, HP studied
in detail Autonomy’s tax structure and transfer pricing as well as its revenue
recognition practices (led by Paul Curtis, HP’s worldwide head of revenue
recognition). * An independent, third-party valuation of Autonomy’s assets was
carried out in January 2012. * Quarterly business reviews were held with
Autonomy management, Meg Whitman and Cathie Lesjak to discuss Autonomy’s
financial performance. * HP has continued to sell and account for hardware
alongside Autonomy software in the same way that Autonomy did for the year
since the acquisition completed. * Regarding differences between IFRS and US
GAAP accounting standards, which appear to have a role in some of the
allegations HP has made, Autonomy’s accounting policies were made clear in
Autonomy’s 2010 annual report. We also note the statement in HP’s annual
report that it received confirmation from the US Department of Justice on 21
November 2012 (the day after HP’s first public statement), that the Department
had opened an investigation. We can confirm that we have as yet had no contact
from any regulatory authority. We will co-operate with any investigation and
look forward to the opportunity to explain our position. We continue to reject
these allegations in the strongest possible terms. Autonomy’s financial
accounts were properly maintained in accordance with applicable regulations,
fully audited by Deloitte, and available to HP during the due diligence
process. We remain deeply concerned about how this process has been conducted,
and believe it is in everyone’s interest for it to be resolved as soon as
possible. RELATED POSTS: More From Mike Lynch: HP’s Autonomy Accusations Are
Getting Weaker Mike Lynch Punches Back at Today’s HP Filing: Whither $5B
Writedown? HP Confirms DOJ Is Investigating Alleged Fraud in Autonomy Deal
Yes, There Are Layoffs Pending at HP’s Autonomy Unit in the U.K. Former HP CEO
Shifts Blame for Autonomy Deal to Chairman Dell Passed on Autonomy Before HP
Bought It Why Mike Lynch Is Playing PR Hardball With HP Autonomy Founder Lynch
Asks Board to Explain HP Allegations Autonomy Founder Lynch Blames Accounting
Standards in HP Flap The Red Flags That Were Obvious — To Some — In the HP-
Autonomy Deal Oracle’s Ellison Vindicated in Autonomy PR Flap by HP’s $8.8
Billion Writedown Autonomy Founder Mike Lynch Rejects HP Charges, Alleges
Mismanagement What Exactly Happened at Autonomy? HP Explains Its $8.8 Billion
“Oops” HP Beats Street Amid Sales Declines, Takes $8.8 Billion Charge HP Names
Microsoft Exec Robert Youngjohns to Run Autonomy Search Under Way at HP for
Autonomy’s Next Chief Autonomy’s Mike Lynch Talks About Being HP’s Speedy
Tiger Cub (Video) Britain’s First Software Billionaire Now Reports to HP CEO
Meg Whitman Oracle Launches Exalytics Machine, Probably Ending Spat With
Autonomy Autonomy: When All Else Fails, Blame the Bankers Mike Lynch to
Oracle: Oh, You Mean Those Slides Oracle: You Have a Very Bad Memory, Mr.
Lynch HP Reportedly Close to $10 Billion Buyout of Autonomy, PC Unit Spinoff
Will Oracle and Microsoft Bid on Autonomy? ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121227/mike-lynch-punches-back-at-todays-hps-filing-
whither-5b-writedown/feed/ 0 HP Credit Rating Cut by Moody's, Put on Negative
Watch http://allthingsd.com/20121128/hp-credit-rating-cut-by-moodys-put-on-
negative-watch/ http://allthingsd.com/20121128/hp-credit-rating-cut-by-moodys-
put-on-negative-watch/#comments Wed, 28 Nov 2012 20:54:42 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=273529 Hewlett-Packard’s credit rating has just been
lowered by the rating’s service Moody’s. The new rating is Baa1 with a
negative outlook, and is a reduction from A3. Moody’s said that while HP will
remain the leader in several market segments for the time being, its “credit
profile will remain weaker than previously expected over the intermediate
term.” HP’s debt load, and the expenses it incurs to borrow, have become an
ongoing concern; over the summer, credit default swaps on its bonds —
essentially the insurance that debt investors buy to protect against the
possibility of a default — were “blowing out,” as the term of art goes. The
end result of downgrades like this is that when HP next goes to the debt
markets to borrow money to finance some aspect of its operations, it will
probably have to incur higher costs to do it. It was the second downgrade on
HP’s credit rating by Moody’s this year. The last one was in January.
Previously, both Fitch and Standard and Poors cut their ratings on HP late
last year. Fitch has had a negative outlook on HP since then. One thing HP
doesn’t have is downgrade triggers on any of its debt. Sometimes companies
have triggers written into their debt agreements that have the effect of
accelerating the maturity dates by which the debt has to be repaid. But, as HP
conceded in its most recent 10Q filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the downgrades already incurred have increased the cost of
borrowing and overall reduced its capacity to borrow. HP does have pretty
ample cash reserves, and Moody’s even says as much in its announcement: $11.3
billion in cash and equivalents as of the end of the most recent quarter, and
it said it expects that level to remain north of $8 billion for the forseeable
future. Add to that an expected $4 billion in free cash flow in 2013, and it
makes it unlikely that HP will need to borrow anytime soon. Another bit of
good news for 2013 is that HP has about $5.5 billion in debt maturities due,
starting with a $1.5 billion payment in March and additional payments due in
May, August and September. But there’s another $8 billion and change due in
the following two years. Some will be repaid, some refinanced. Whatever the
outcome, today’s downgrade is a step in the wrong direction from what CFO
Cathie Lesjak talked about at HP’s analyst’s meeting in San Francisco last
month. At the time, she said getting HP back to what she called a “Mid
Single-A” credit rating is “a top priority for us.” The only way to do that,
she said, was to reduce the net debt load of the operating company — the
portion of the debt not held by the finance division that is there to help
customers buy HP gear — to “roughly zero.” That will take time. Here’s the
full announcement, courtesy of Moody’s: Rating Action: Moody’s lowers Hewlett-
Packard’s senior unsecured rating to Baa1, outlook negative Global Credit
Research – 28 Nov 2012 Approximately $25 billion of debt securities affected
New York, November 28, 2012 — Moody’s Investors Service lowered the long term
credit ratings of Hewlett-Packard (HP), including the senior unsecured rating
to Baa1 from A3. The Prime-2 short term rating is affirmed. This concludes a
review initiated October 4, 2012. The outlook is negative. RATINGS RATIONALE
The new rating reflect our expectations that “although HP will maintain strong
to leading positions in a number of product areas, the company’s credit
profile will remain weaker than previously expected over the intermediate
term,” said Moody’s senior vice president, Richard Lane. The negative rating
outlook reflects our concerns about HP’s ability to contend with the
significant competitive, secular and execution challenges facing the company.
A “broad portion of HP’s portfolio, including PC’s, some enterprise servers,
printers, and services, representing over 75% of revenue, will face slow to no
growth prospects over the coming years,” said Lane. The ability to restore
growth and profitability has sufficient uncertainty that we believe event risk
in the form of more shareholder friendly actions or portfolio repositioning
could develop, which would pressure the company’s credit ratings. Key drivers
to the projected credit profile include “company-specific execution challenges
in services and software, secular shifts in PCs and printing, competitive
pressures throughout its broad portfolio, as well as a cautious demand
environment,” said Lane. As a result, we expect HP’s revenue will decline 5%
next year while operating margins approximate 7% as compared to a nearly 9.8%
historical average prior to 2012 (using Moody’s standard adjustments). We also
anticipate free cash flow (post dividends) of approximately $4 billion next
year, down from our prior expectations of $6 billion to $7 billion, driven by
restructuring related cash outflows and overall weaker operating performance.
We believe HP will remain committed to reducing gross debt over the
intermediate term after having reduced debt by $2.2 billion in 2012. We
anticipate HP will repay at least half of its debt maturities over the next
few years. In fiscal 2013, debt maturities total $5.5 billion with $1.5
billion due in March, $1.75 billion in May and $1.1 billion in each of August
and September. HP has $4.9 billion and $3.2 billion of debt maturities in 2014
and 2015. Assuming HP repays approximately half of its debt maturities and
refinances the rest, we project HP’s adjusted debt to EBITDA, estimated at
2.0x at October 2012, will approximate 1.9x at the end of 2013 and potentially
1.6x by 2015. Ratings lowered include: senior unsecured rating to Baa1 from A3
subordinated rating to (P)Baa2 from (P)Baa1 preferred rating to (P)Baa3 from
(P)Baa2 Rating outlook negative We expect HP’s acquisition activity will be
minimal over the next few years as management focuses more on internal
research and development over acquisitions, where HP has demonstrated a poor
track record. While the less acquisitive posture reduces event risk, this
approach also raises the potential that HP could lose some competitive ground
against peers who have more flexibility to get to market faster with products
and technology offerings via acquisition. HP maintains a solid liquidity
profile. At the end of October 2012, HP had $11.3 billion of cash and
equivalents and we expect HP will maintain cash balances in excess of $8
billion. While a significant portion of this cash is held offshore, the
company has tax efficient access to material amounts of this cash. We project
about $4 billion of free cash flow in 2013, with the first half being weaker
than the second half due to some seasonality and heavier restructuring cash
outflows (primarily headcount). The company maintains solid alternate
liquidity to support outstanding commercial paper ($574 million at July 2012)
in the form of a $4.5 billion bank facility maturing February 2015 and a $3.0
billion bank facility maturing March 2017. Both have one financial covenant
under which HP has ample room, and no need to represent as to no material
adverse change. HP’s ratings are unlikely to be raised over the next year. The
rating could be stabilized over the 12 to 18 months if the company
demonstrates consistent execution and progress in restoring sustainable
profitability throughout its portfolio. Longer term, the ratings could be
raised if the company: (1) demonstrates steady organic revenue growth; (2) is
likely to sustain EBIT margins above 9%; and (3) adheres to its conservative
financial practices which include maintaining significant liquidity and a
modestly leveraged balance sheet such that adjusted debt to EBITDA were below
1.5x on a sustained basis. HP’s ratings could be lowered if the company (1)
maintains adjusted debt to EBITDA above 2.0x; (2) EBIT margins fall below 6%
for an extended period of time; or (3) deviates from our expectations of
conservative financial practices. For further information, please see
www.moodys.com. Hewlett-Packard, headquartered in Palo Alto, California, with
$120 billion in revenue for the twelve months ended October 2012, is the
world’s largest technology firm by revenue that designs, manufactures, and
services computing and imaging systems and provides information technology and
consulting services. The principal methodology used in rating Hewlett Packard
was the Global Technology Hardware Industry Methodology published in September
2010. Please see the Credit Policy page on www.moodys.com for a copy of this
methodology. REGULATORY DISCLOSURES The Global Scale Credit Ratings on this
press release that are issued by one of Moody’s affiliates outside the EU are
endorsed by Moody’s Investors Service Ltd., One Canada Square, Canary Wharf,
London E 14 5FA, UK, in accordance with Art.4 paragraph 3 of the Regulation
(EC) No 1060/2009 on Credit Rating Agencies. Further information on the EU
endorsement status and on the Moody’s office that has issued a particular
Credit Rating is available on www.moodys.com. For ratings issued on a program,
series or category/class of debt, this announcement provides relevant
regulatory disclosures in relation to each rating of a subsequently issued
bond or note of the same series or category/class of debt or pursuant to a
program for which the ratings are derived exclusively from existing ratings in
accordance with Moody’s rating practices. For ratings issued on a support
provider, this announcement provides relevant regulatory disclosures in
relation to the rating action on the support provider and in relation to each
particular rating action for securities that derive their credit ratings from
the support provider’s credit rating. For provisional ratings, this
announcement provides relevant regulatory disclosures in relation to the
provisional rating assigned, and in relation to a definitive rating that may
be assigned subsequent to the final issuance of the debt, in each case where
the transaction structure and terms have not changed prior to the assignment
of the definitive rating in a manner that would have affected the rating. For
further information please see the ratings tab on the issuer/entity page for
the respective issuer on www.moodys.com. Information sources used to prepare
the rating are the following: parties involved in the ratings, parties not
involved in the ratings, public information, and confidential and proprietary
Moody’s Investors Service information. Moody’s considers the quality of
information available on the rated entity, obligation or credit satisfactory
for the purposes of issuing a rating. Moody’s adopts all necessary measures so
that the information it uses in assigning a rating is of sufficient quality
and from sources Moody’s considers to be reliable including, when appropriate,
independent third-party sources. However, Moody’s is not an auditor and cannot
in every instance independently verify or validate information received in the
rating process. Please see the ratings disclosure page on www.moodys.com for
general disclosure on potential conflicts of interests. Please see the ratings
disclosure page on www.moodys.com for information on (A) MCO’s major
shareholders (above 5%) and for (B) further information regarding certain
affiliations that may exist between directors of MCO and rated entities as
well as (C) the names of entities that hold ratings from MIS that have also
publicly reported to the SEC an ownership interest in MCO of more than 5%. A
member of the board of directors of this rated entity may also be a member of
the board of directors of a shareholder of Moody’s Corporation; however,
Moody’s has not independently verified this matter. Please see Moody’s Rating
Symbols and Definitions on the Rating Process page on www.moodys.com for
further information on the meaning of each rating category and the definition
of default and recovery. Please see ratings tab on the issuer/entity page on
www.moodys.com for the last rating action and the rating history. The date on
which some ratings were first released goes back to a time before Moody’s
ratings were fully digitized and accurate data may not be available.
Consequently, Moody’s provides a date that it believes is the most reliable
and accurate based on the information that is available to it. Please see the
ratings disclosure page on our website www.moodys.com for further information.
Please see www.moodys.com for any updates on changes to the lead rating
analyst and to the Moody’s legal entity that has issued the rating. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121128/hp-credit-rating-cut-by-moodys-put-on-negative-
watch/feed/ 0 What Exactly Happened at Autonomy?
http://allthingsd.com/20121120/what-exactly-happened-at-autonomy/
http://allthingsd.com/20121120/what-exactly-happened-at-autonomy/#comments
Tue, 20 Nov 2012 16:11:09 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=271264 Today’s
bombshell from Hewlett-Packard concerning an $8.8 billion write-down related
to Autonomy, the British software firm it acquired in 2011 for $11.7 billion
in combined cash and assumed debt, is a little hard to understand. Here’s how
it breaks down: First, HP’s total $8.8 billion write-down isn’t all Autonomy-
related. Of that total amount, about $5 billion relates specifically to
Autonomy. Moments ago, on a conference call with reporters, HP CFO Cathie
Lesjak said that the rest stems from the drop in HP’s share price. The core
allegation is that people at Autonomy took certain accounting actions while
still running Autonomy as a publicly held company in the U.K., which had the
end effect of making Autonomy seem more valuable than it was. As CEO Meg
Whitman put it on a conference call a few minutes ago: “There appears to have
been a wilfull effort on the part of certain former Autonomy employees to
inflate the underlying financials of the company in order to mislead investors
and potential buyers.” It’s important to note that Autonomy’s founder and
former CEO Mike Lynch has just issued a statement, essentially denying HP’s
claims. I heard portions of the statement read on CNBC. In a statement being
reported by Reuters, he has “flatly rejected” HP’s allegations. Also: “HP’s
due diligence review was intensive, overseen on behalf of HP by KPMG, Barclays
and Perella Weinberg. HP’s senior management has also been closely involved
with running Autonomy for the past year.” So what is alleged to have happened?
For one thing, Autonomy, as HP tells it, was selling some hardware at a loss.
During a period of about eight quarters prior to HP’s acquisition, Autonomy
sold some hardware products that had a very low margin or on which it may have
even taken a loss. It then allegedly turned around and booked those hardware
sales as high-margin software sales. At least some portion of the cost on
these products, Whitman said, was booked as a marketing expense, not as cost
of goods sold. There’s a second piece of the puzzle, where HP says that
Autonomy was selling software to value-added resellers — the middlemen in so
many technology transactions — in which there are ultimately no end users.
That, too, inflated apparent revenue. Third, there were some long-term hosting
deals — essentially, Autonomy hosting applications for its customers on a
subscription basis — that were converted to short-term licensing deals. Future
revenue for software subscriptions — that should have been deferred or
recorded as coming in the future but not yet booked — were stripped out and
booked all at once. John Schultz, HP’s general counsel, said there appeared to
be what he called “a conscious effort by some former Autonomy employees to
portray it as a pure software company.” The low-margin or loss-making hardware
sales in particular, he said on the conference call, amounted to as much as 10
percent to 15 percent of Autonomy’s revenue during the eight-quarter period in
question. It had the effect, Schultz said, of not only closing the gap between
actual financial growth and the consensus expectation of analysts — meeting
the consensus is always a concern at a publicly held company — but also
inflated the “growth metrics” of the company. “From an accounting perspective,
there were improprieties, but also there were severe disclosure failures,” he
said. Lesjak said the problems are not only with the fact that revenue was
inflated by itself, but the kinds of revenue. “These hardware sales were
frequently reported as licenses. The VAR sales were reported as licenses, and
they weren’t, in some sense, real sales, because there was no end user.” The
result, Lesjak said, was that Autonomy was able to boost its gross margins, a
key measurement of profitability. Where Autonomy had been reporting gross
margins in the neighborhood of 40 percent to 45 percent, Lesjak said a more
realistic gross margin at Autonomy going forward is in the 28 percent to 30
percent range. So what is HP going to do about it? First, it has reported the
matter to the enforcement division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, and to the Serious Fraud Office in the U.K. Once those authorities
have their say, HP will likely sue someone. Whitman conceded that it will
likely take years before it’s all done. It’s going to get ugly before it’s
over. The Wall Street Journal just got a statement from former HP CEO Léo
Apotheker, who did the Autonomy deal during his 11-month tenure as CEO. In a
word, he says he’s “stunned.” He will also make himself available to help HP
get to the bottom of it all. Whitman was just on CNBC for several minutes,
going through the particulars and reiterating much of what she said on the
conference call with reporters. Here’s the video: RELATED POSTS: More From
Mike Lynch: HP’s Autonomy Accusations Are Getting Weaker Mike Lynch Punches
Back at Today’s HP Filing: Whither $5B Writedown? HP Confirms DOJ Is
Investigating Alleged Fraud in Autonomy Deal Yes, There Are Layoffs Pending at
HP’s Autonomy Unit in the U.K. Former HP CEO Shifts Blame for Autonomy Deal to
Chairman Dell Passed on Autonomy Before HP Bought It Why Mike Lynch Is Playing
PR Hardball With HP Autonomy Founder Lynch Asks Board to Explain HP
Allegations Autonomy Founder Lynch Blames Accounting Standards in HP Flap The
Red Flags That Were Obvious — To Some — In the HP-Autonomy Deal Oracle’s
Ellison Vindicated in Autonomy PR Flap by HP’s $8.8 Billion Writedown Autonomy
Founder Mike Lynch Rejects HP Charges, Alleges Mismanagement What Exactly
Happened at Autonomy? HP Explains Its $8.8 Billion “Oops” HP Beats Street Amid
Sales Declines, Takes $8.8 Billion Charge HP Names Microsoft Exec Robert
Youngjohns to Run Autonomy Search Under Way at HP for Autonomy’s Next Chief
Autonomy’s Mike Lynch Talks About Being HP’s Speedy Tiger Cub (Video)
Britain’s First Software Billionaire Now Reports to HP CEO Meg Whitman Oracle
Launches Exalytics Machine, Probably Ending Spat With Autonomy Autonomy: When
All Else Fails, Blame the Bankers Mike Lynch to Oracle: Oh, You Mean Those
Slides Oracle: You Have a Very Bad Memory, Mr. Lynch HP Reportedly Close to
$10 Billion Buyout of Autonomy, PC Unit Spinoff Will Oracle and Microsoft Bid
on Autonomy? ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121120/what-exactly-happened-at-
autonomy/feed/ 0 HP Explains Its $8.8 Billion "Oops"
http://allthingsd.com/20121120/liveblogging-hps-q4-earnings-call/
http://allthingsd.com/20121120/liveblogging-hps-q4-earnings-call/#comments
Tue, 20 Nov 2012 13:12:36 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=271183 Just joining
the HP conference call in progress. Already the news is amazingly bad, and the
shares are hitting lows not seen since 2002. If they go much lower, we’ll be
looking at levels not seen since 1994. 5:13 am: Meg Whitman is speaking about
Autonomy. She just said there’s a lot of work to do with Autonomy. The
majority of the accounting charge is related to improprieties, disclosure
failures and impact from those failures. These improprieties were brought to
light after an intensive investigation. The SEC criminal enforcement division
has been contacted, and HP will seek “redress” from certain parties in the
appropriate courts. Now to guidance. 2013 will be a fix-and-rebuild year. We
expect the underlying macro headwinds to continue. Finally, the turnaround
plan we laid out at the analysts meeting. New products and services will kick
in. R&D; will kick in, and another year of cost managements will result. We
expect to grow as we reach FY15 and beyond. Our 68 cents to 71 cents EPS non-
GAAP in Q113. 8:17 am: And here’s Cathie Lesjak: We continue to see
macroeconomic challenges in all our regions. Lesjak is speaking. I paused
there to read a statement from HP on the Autonomy charge. I’m going to grab
some text from that. 8:20 am: “HP is extremely disappointed to find that some
former members of Autonomy’s management team used accounting improprieties,
misrepresentations and disclosure failures to inflate the underlying financial
metrics of the company, prior to Autonomy’s acquisition by HP. These efforts
appear to have been a willful effort to mislead investors and potential
buyers, and severely impacted HP management’s ability to fairly value Autonomy
at the time of the deal. We remain 100 percent committed to Autonomy and its
industry-leading technology.” Now Lesjak is speaking about this. Of the $8.8
billion write-down, more than $5 billion comes from Autonomy, and it is linked
somehow to the trading of HP stock. Expect more revelations on this soon, I
guess. 8:23 am: Another couple paragraphs from the explanation on the Autonomy
write-down: “As a result of that investigation, HP now believes that Autonomy
was substantially overvalued at the time of its acquisition due to the
misstatement of Autonomy’s financial performance, including its revenue, core
growth rate and gross margins, and the misrepresentation of its business mix.
“This appears to have been a willful effort on behalf of certain former
Autonomy employees to inflate the underlying financial metrics of the company
in order to mislead investors and potential buyers. These misrepresentations
and lack of disclosure severely impacted HP management’s ability to fairly
value Autonomy at the time of the deal.” What it comes down to is this:
Someone in Autonomy management sought to make that company look like it was
more valuable than it actually was. Now back to Lesjak’s remarks: She’s
speaking about the enterprise, servers, storage and networking. Business
Critical Servers weak again. Persistent revenue declines as a result of the
Itanium litigation. Mission critical x86 sales were up 25 percent. 8:28 am:
Here’s the GM news. GM, remember, decided to insource the majority of its IT
operations. A lot of HP services employees moved to GM. A side benefit was a
huge software deal, the largest-ever HP software deployment. 8:36 am: Q&A; is
underway. Whitman just answered a question about Autonomy, and said that
“basically, the two people who should have been responsible for the problems
are gone.” Question from Sanford Bernstein: If I look at your guidance, you’re
guiding for a 40 percent drop in EPS. Historically, you’ve only been down more
than 10 percent once. I’m wondering, given that your savings should be ramping
from restructuring. But it’s really hard to get the math. Why the dramatic
erosion in profitability in Q1? Whitman: The way I look at 2013, we have
weaker than normal seasonality in the first half. In terms of new products,
many of those are being introduced now, and you’ll see them start to hit in Q3
and Q4 of 2013. We’ve looked into this very carefully. We have some headwinds
coming at us, some of which are out of our control. Lesjak is speaking. We had
a very significant software deal from GM that is not going to repeat. We have
to reset our incentive compensation plans. Question about 8,000 people leaving
in Q4, and why there’s not more savings showing up in the EPS. Lesjak: Yes, we
got the headcount reductions we expected. Still expecting 29,000, and by end
of fiscal 2013 we’ll be down 26,000. When we execute reductions outside the
U.S., they take a lot longer to complete, so the savings are back-end-loaded.
Also, there’s a lot of new investments in the front of 2013 that start to pay
off in the end of 2013. Question from Morgan Stanley: A question about the
trends in the PC and printing market. Whitman: The good news about the PC
business is that 80 percent is variable-cost. We’re conscious of the pressure
on the PC business, we’re optimistic about our new products and Windows 8, but
we have to manage the business as a whole to deliver the operating profits
that we expect. Lesjak: We have some additional levers with which to manage
our cost. In printing and PCs, it’s about managing your costs day in and day
out. 8:47 am: Q: What drove the 25 percent decline in enterprise profits? Why
wouldn’t your enterprise assumptions for 2013 be at risk? They came from low
top-line growth, and an aggressive pricing environment, especially in Europe.
Itanium hurt us and our Hyperscale business, and our margins there are
materially different than the industry standard. We’re really investing in the
large and growing and profitable market segment, and over time, that will
offset Itanium. Also Hyperscale and Moonshot are disruptive products. Over the
long term, we do expect these dynamics to bring margins back up. Whitman: One
of the main things we have to focus on is the mainstream server business. We
have to better manage the supply chain and reconfigure some of the products.
Dave Donatelli and his team will execute against that in the first half of
2013. Lesjak: This is one of the key areas where we are putting R&D.; This is
not necessarily going to be a linear year. 8:50 am: Question about guidance.
With Q1 guidance down, why aren’t you lowering your guidance for the full
year? (70 cents implies a full-year EPS of $2.80, which is a lot lower than
the guidance of $3.40 to $3.60.) Lesjak: It’s basically that there’s a lot of
confidence in the second half of 2013. New PCs and printers, new OfficeJet.
That’s a product that doesn’t ship until February. Whitman: When we gave
guidance for Q1, we knew this would be a question. We went through it
thoroughly, customer by customer, and we understand what your concern is, but
we feel good about the guidance for the year. Question about savings and cash
flow. Lesjak: What is important to take away from the Q4 results: When we
focus, we achieve results. We’re not updating our guidance cash flow for FY13.
Whitman: With regard to cost savings. They focus in two areas, labor and non-
labor. Making changes to your labor force in Western Europe is a big
challenge, it can take as much as 12 months to 18 months to get it done. 8:59
am: Final question. Back on Autonomy. Can you provide steps and timing on
remedies? Whitman: Our internal investigation is ongoing. We have turned over
the investigation to the SEC in the U.S., and the Serious Fraud Office in the
U.K. That process is under way. It will take some time. It will take a long
way to work through, but we will seek redress for our shareholders. Q: And you
will wait until the criminal investigation is over with, and then you seek a
civil case? Whitman: Basically, yes. (She previously said she expects a
multiyear process.) And that’s the end of the call. RELATED POSTS: More From
Mike Lynch: HP’s Autonomy Accusations Are Getting Weaker Mike Lynch Punches
Back at Today’s HP Filing: Whither $5B Writedown? HP Confirms DOJ Is
Investigating Alleged Fraud in Autonomy Deal Yes, There Are Layoffs Pending at
HP’s Autonomy Unit in the U.K. Former HP CEO Shifts Blame for Autonomy Deal to
Chairman Dell Passed on Autonomy Before HP Bought It Why Mike Lynch Is Playing
PR Hardball With HP Autonomy Founder Lynch Asks Board to Explain HP
Allegations Autonomy Founder Lynch Blames Accounting Standards in HP Flap The
Red Flags That Were Obvious — To Some — In the HP-Autonomy Deal Oracle’s
Ellison Vindicated in Autonomy PR Flap by HP’s $8.8 Billion Writedown Autonomy
Founder Mike Lynch Rejects HP Charges, Alleges Mismanagement What Exactly
Happened at Autonomy? HP Explains Its $8.8 Billion “Oops” HP Beats Street Amid
Sales Declines, Takes $8.8 Billion Charge HP Names Microsoft Exec Robert
Youngjohns to Run Autonomy Search Under Way at HP for Autonomy’s Next Chief
Autonomy’s Mike Lynch Talks About Being HP’s Speedy Tiger Cub (Video)
Britain’s First Software Billionaire Now Reports to HP CEO Meg Whitman Oracle
Launches Exalytics Machine, Probably Ending Spat With Autonomy Autonomy: When
All Else Fails, Blame the Bankers Mike Lynch to Oracle: Oh, You Mean Those
Slides Oracle: You Have a Very Bad Memory, Mr. Lynch HP Reportedly Close to
$10 Billion Buyout of Autonomy, PC Unit Spinoff Will Oracle and Microsoft Bid
on Autonomy? ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121120/liveblogging-hps-q4-earnings-
call/feed/ 0 HP Shares Tumble on Dismal 2013 Outlook
http://allthingsd.com/20121003/hp-shares-tumble-on-dismal-2013-outlook/
http://allthingsd.com/20121003/hp-shares-tumble-on-
dismal-2013-outlook/#comments Wed, 03 Oct 2012 18:47:03 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=256860 The turnaround at computing and IT giant
Hewlett-Packard is going to take quite a bit longer, and investors don’t like
it one bit. HP shares are setting new 52-week and 10-year lows after CFO
Cathie Lesjak issued new guidance for fiscal 2013, saying the company now
expects to earn between $3.40 and $3.60 on a non-GAAP basis, significantly
lower than the $4.18 analysts had been expecting. In afternoon trading, HP’s
shares were down about 11 percent, in the neighborhood of $15.25. Lesjak said
HP continues to expect a difficult environment in Europe and a weak consumer
market, and that every HP business segment except for software is bracing for
a year-on-year decline in sales. She said she expects a 2 percent headwind
from currency effects as the U.S. dollar remains strong against the euro.
Operating margins are also expected to decline year on year, but the amount
was not specified. In remarks before Lesjak’s, CEO Meg Whitman painted a
picture of a turnaround that at best wouldn’t be complete before 2016, with
2013 another year for declines in sales and profit. Whitman said she sees 2014
as the year when the first signs of a turnaround would be apparent. “I believe
that 2014 will be the year you see real recovery and expansion at HP,” she
said. “You should see every business unit recover and grow. Our investments in
R&D; and IT will begin to kick in. And we will have demonstrated an ability to
manage costs in line with revenue.” Also, more debt will have been paid down
by then, she said. HP indicated that much of the drag on its performance was
in its Enterprise Services unit, the company formerly known as EDS. That unit
is expected to see its sales drop by 11 percent to 13 percent, with operating
margins expected to be flat to down 3 percent. In another presentation, Mike
Nefkens, the acting head of Global Services, and J.J. Chabon, senior VP and
COO of the services unit, blamed the problems on “poor execution.” Operating
margins in the services unit declined from north of 10 percent in 2010 to
about 3 percent as of this year. They said that poor contracting practices led
to pricing concessions to customers that turned out unfavorable to HP. Worse,
HP Services saw revenue declines amounting to about 5 percent in relation to
four major accounts, while an additional 2 percent was the result of currency
effects. It looks more or less like another example of HP taking its bitter
medicine as it seeks to get things going in the right direction. You certainly
can’t say that Whitman and Lesjak sugar-coated any aspect of the situation HP
finds itself in. “HP did a good job self-diagnosing its many challenges and
talking about optimizing near-term business, but they need to do more
highlighting growth areas, analyst Patrick Moorhead, head of Moor Insights &
Strategy told me. “HP must describe how it intends to win in a PC-plus, public
cloud future before it will be seen as a growth company.” ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20121003/hp-shares-tumble-on-dismal-2013-outlook/feed/ 0
HP's Whitman Sees a Tough 2013 as Company Turnaround Effort Continues
http://allthingsd.com/20121003/liveblogging-meg-whitmans-remarks-from-the-hp-
analysts-meeting/ http://allthingsd.com/20121003/liveblogging-meg-whitmans-
remarks-from-the-hp-analysts-meeting/#comments Wed, 03 Oct 2012 15:15:51 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=256759 Hewlett-Packard has convened a meeting of
securities analysts in San Francisco at which CEO Meg Whitman is expected to
give the latest look ahead at how she plans to turn the company around. As
shareholders, employees and customers know all too well, there are many things
that need fixing, and the fact that the share price has recently been trading
no higher than where it was in 2002 is about as strong an indication of that
as you can get. Whitman has several items on the agenda about which analysts
will be expecting to hear: Rationalizing her decision to keep the PC business,
entering the mobile device business again after bailing out of the webOS
hardware business, fixing the IT services unit on which the company took an
enormous write-down recently, and growing the software business are but a few.
But the big item will be financial guidance for the coming year. The
proceedings are about to begin. Earlier: 8:16 am: The program is getting under
way with introductions. It will be Cathie Lesjak who gives the much-
anticipated financial guidance, and she will speak after Meg. Right now, Rob
Binns is giving an introduction and reading the safe-harbor statement.
Riveting. And here’s Meg. Whitman: Our goal today is to be pretty
straightforward. We want you to understand the journey that we’re on to turn
around one of the world’s great technology franchises. Whitman: When I became
CEO, it was a turbulent time for HP. Since then, I’ve seen the company’s
strengths. Customers and partners want HP to win. One important strength is
global reach. We can reach any corner of the globe. One of the things I heard
we were short of on HP is innovation. My conclusion is not that we don’t have
enough ideas and innovation. It’s that we don’t work hard enough to get those
ideas into the marketplace. Whitman: In the last decade, HP has made a
remarkable transformation from a printing company to a diversified IT company.
Whitman: The good news is that we are No. 1 or 2 in each of the major markets,
and we can leverage that position in areas like supply chain and distribution.
Whitman: HP has a well-known and trusted brand. We also have a talented,
committed and, I would say, resilient workforce. We will do anything for
customers. They are at the heart of the company and have been for 75 years. In
2002, HP was a printing company with 95 percent of profits coming from
printing. Carly Fiorina and Mark Hurd assembled a powerful set of businesses.
From 2010, HP has seen a multi-quarter decline in revenue and margins.
Whitman: My belief is that the single biggest challenge at HP is the changes
in the CEOs. There have been multiple inconsistent plans and executional
miscues limiting the speed of recovery. 8:27 am: EDS has had four different
leaders in only a few years. All of this is fixable, and it is going to take
some time. In basic execution, HP has challenges. We don’t have the sharp
competitive focus we’re going to use. HP also has too many areas of focus,
whether it’s products or geographies. 8:28 am: Whitman: Expect the number of
printer SKUs to be cut by 50 percent next year. Todd Bradley, the EVP who runs
PCs and printers, was surprised to learn that HP makes 2,100 different
printers. Whitman: Marketing hasn’t been centralized; different units have
been spending money inconsistently. Now she’s talking about compensation. I’ve
learned, at HP, you don’t get what you expect, you get what you inspect.
Whitman: It has been over seven years since we’ve had a new lineup of
multifunction printers, but we have a much smaller share than we should in
this market. We are not as competitive as we need to be in how we go to
market. Whitman: We haven’t been using a compelling CRM system. We decided to
move to Salesforce.com, which we think will yield real tangible results. (I’ll
bet this was the “biggest deal ever” rumor that has been murmured about
concerning Salesforce for awhile.) Also good news for Workday — HP is a
customer. Whitman: HP faces dynamic market trends that we must confront.
Mobility, software as a service, the cloud, hyperscaling. Whitman: We also
face very aggressive competitors. We have to demonstrate a will to win. We
face some real macroeconomic headwinds. SMB and enterprise demand in Europe is
very weak. Consumers are spending less, and there’s no question that China is
slowing down. Whitman: I will characterize fiscal year 2012 as diagnosing the
problem and laying foundations for the turnaround. In 2012, the priority was
to stabilize the company. 8:34 am: We have more work to do, but I think we
have made good progress. Whitman: Peeling the onion has taken some time. I’ve
made several organizational and leadership changes that will help HP navigate
the trends better. Whitman: We now have crisp, agreed-upon strategies across
the business units. Whitman: We’ve also renewed HP’s focus on products and
services. Meg is about to run down the next four fiscal years. We’ve just
completed Year One. 2013 will be a fix-and-rebuild year, and we’ll be doing it
in a worse macroeconomic environment. Whitman: We made significant changes to
the salesforce to improve selling but reduce costs. When you disrupt the
salesforce configuration, it takes time to settle in. Expect a broad-based
profit decline in 2013. (Ouch.) The good news in 2013 is that the bulk of the
profit decline will be in enterprise services. Whitman: I believe that 2014
will be the year you see real recovery and expansion at HP. You should see
every business unit recover and grow. Our investments in R&D; and IT will
begin to kick in. And we will have demonstrated an ability to manage costs in
line with revenue. More debt will be paid down. Whitman: 2015 will accelerate.
We should see a vastly reduced number of SKUs and platforms, and this should
reduce costs. Whitman: Compensation will be aligned to business outcomes and
metrics. By 2016, we should have achieved market leadership in many areas.
Financial metric should be growing about as fast as GDP, and profit should be
growing faster than revenue. 8:40 am: Whitman: I now see, up close and
personal, the challenges we face. There are no silver bullets. We will solve
our problems through consistent leadership. Whitman: Now she’s going to run
down what role each business unit is going to play, going forward. Whitman:
The core of the company is infrastructure and hardware. They represent 70
percent of revenue, and it’s something we do better than anyone else, and it’s
the DNA of the company. We need to stand up and be proud of it. People say it
will be a commodity business. I say, not if we can help it. 8:44 am: Three big
themes going forward: Cloud, Security, Information. Whitman: Now she’s diving
into the enterprise services business. She expects a decline in services
revenue, with slowly improving margins. Whitman: Now to PCs and printing: $65
billion, which would make it a Fortune 50 in its own right. PPS will be a low-
growth business. She’s praising Todd Bradley, who took PCs from a money-losing
business to being the biggest PC maker in the world. Whitman: The enterprise
group is a moderate growth business with the potential for faster growth over
time. This business has an excellent set of assets. Whitman: 2013 will be the
year that Technology Services gets integrated into the Enterprise group.
Whitman: Now she’s describing the software unit. 8:50 am: Whitman: For
services, you’ll see we have an entirely different operating model for 2013.
The revenue has been disconnected from the people who own them. For 2013, we
are restoring revenue and profit responsibility to the managers of our top 200
accounts. Whitman: For PPS, we’re closing the product gaps that have hurt PCs
and printers. We’re innovating and betting big on the ink business. Whitman:
In enterprise, it’s all about innovation and the journey to the cloud. For
software, it’s about getting all the consumption models brought about by the
shift to the cloud. Whitman: Today, the architectural advances in enterprise
hardware make it hard to justify the premiums in products from the likes of
EMC and Cisco. Whitman: 3Par and StorOnce are big offerings in data storage.
Whitman: Now she’s talking about the current buzzwords in networking:
Software-defined networking. She said HP has the most comprehensive offering
in the SDN marketplace. (I didn’t know that.) Whitman is running down several
products that she says are showing promise in the marketplace. Storage,
networking, multifunction printers, ArcSight, Autonomy, Vertica. Just looked
at HP shares: They’re down more than 5 percent while Meg has been speaking.
Now at $16.18, down 95 cents. Whitman is pretty close to wrapping up, which
means that CFO Cathie Lesjak will be up with the guidance momentarily.
Whitman: I believe, with every single bone in my body, if we do this right, we
can set HP up to be an unrivaled leader for the next 75 years. 9:02 am: And
here’s Cathie Lesjak. Lesjak: Fiscal 2013 is going to be another challenging
year for HP. Lesjak: We have seen deteriorating market conditions and
execution that is not up to our standards. Lesjak: In the first quarter, we
saw a dip in cash flow, quarter on quarter. We have begun to address these
with leadership changes, but there’s a lot more work to do. We’ve had
discipline in the capital allocation progress. Lesjak: Technology services
will become part of ESSN in fiscal 2013. We are doing this to more
appropriately align how we manage them. Lesjak: We have generated $4 billion
in free cash flow. At an operating company level, our net debt has improved by
$2.5 billion this year. We increased dividend by 10 percent, and bought back
$1.3 billion worth of shares. Lesjak: I know capital allocation is top of mind
for all of you, so I want to walk you through how we invest your money.
Lesjak: Every business unit has differing levels of variable costs. PSG has
sort of a sliding cost structure, but still manages to maintain its operating
margins. Lesjak: In May of this year, we adopted a multiyear restructuring
plan. We are increasing R&D; costs in FY 2013. Lesjak: We expect $1.5 billion
in restructuring in FY 2013. We expect 26,000 people to leave the company as
part of the restructuring. Expect $2.7 billion more in restructuring costs.
Lesjak: Must of the operational savings will be needed to offset the economic
headwinds. 9:09 am: Lesjak: Our main priority is to deploy the appropriate mix
of capital to the most productive uses. Lesjak: Getting back to a mid-single-A
credit rating is a top priority. Lesjak: We need to reduce our net debt
position on the operating company to near-zero. Meanwhile, HP shares are down
6 percent. Looks like it has touched a new 52-week low of $15.93 today. 9:13
am: Lesjak: Now looking at the progress in rebuilding the balance sheet. Our
net debt position is below where a mid-single-A company should be. It will be
a couple years before we are where we need to be. 9:15 am: Here comes the
outlook. Lesjak: We expect continued weakness in the macroeconomic
environment. We expect year-on-year revenue declines in all segments except
software. Lesjak: FY 2013 outlook: Non-GAAP EPS $3.40-$3.60. There goes the $4
that analysts had been looking for. This is based on an assumption that
Enterprise Services Business Revenue will decline 11 percent to 13 percent
across the company. With operating margins of zero to 3 percent. That’s pretty
huge. And now HP shares are nearing a 7 percent drop. Lesjak: We continue to
expect continued weakness in Business Critical Systems. Lesjak just ran
through a slide showing where HP expects different business units to
contribute to the declines. Enterprise Services will see declines of 29 cents
to 35 cents a share, the Enterprise Group will see declines of five cents to
12 cents. Software will contribute one cent to three cents per share in
growth. PSG, the PC group, will be flat to slightly down by one cent. IPG,
a.k.a. Printers, will grow by five cents to eight cents. Lesjak: Let’s look
beyond fiscal 2013. We expect to be a GDP growth company with key segments
that grow faster than that. That, combined with growth in software, will grow
our top line. 9:27 am: And Lesjak is done speaking. I’m going to close out the
liveblog here. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20121003/liveblogging-meg-whitmans-
remarks-from-the-hp-analysts-meeting/feed/ 0 Bears Stalk HP Shares Ahead of
Analyst's Meeting http://allthingsd.com/20120926/bears-stalk-hp-shares-ahead-
of-analysts-meeting/ http://allthingsd.com/20120926/bears-stalk-hp-shares-
ahead-of-analysts-meeting/#comments Wed, 26 Sep 2012 12:57:38 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=254445 Next week, Hewlett-Packard will hold an
analysts meeting in San Francisco, the main purpose of which will be to offer
its forward-looking guidance for the coming fiscal year. Also, CEO Meg
Whitman, CFO Cathie Lesjak and other senior executives will probably open the
corporate kimono a bit and give a peek inside the financial situation,
providing more detail than HP usually does. The big looming question is
whether HP can legitimately turn itself around. Having already set plans to
reduce its headcount by 29,000, its restructuring is still getting under way.
There are many betting that Whitman may be in over her head. In a research
note issued to clients today, ISI’s Brian Marshall considered — and then
rejected — the bearish case against HP. Short interest in HP — a key indicator
of market sentiment that a stock’s price is going to fall — has increased
substantially in the last year: About 3.7 percent of HP shares were short, as
of Sept. 14, up from less than 1.5 percent a year ago. And the short bets have
paid off: HP shares closed Tuesday at $16.71, a level they haven’t seen since
about 2002. Marshall summarizes the bearish case thusly: HP is a broken
company, and will experience annual revenue declines of about 5 percent
forever. With the enterprise value amounting to about 8 times free cash flow,
the company is not generatng enough free cash flow to be an attractive
investment. Add to that about $20 billion in net debt, and you get a company
that has little flexibility to make big acquisitions or invest in new
initiatives. Conclusion: HP’s hopes for delivering $4 a share in annual per-
share earnings just aren’t tenable. But Marshall is not a bear himself. In his
view, HP should saw itself in half — one part that generates cash, and one
that requires cash investments in order to grow. The “growth group,” as
Marshall sees it, would combine the Enterprise Servers, Storage and Networking
business unit and HP’s IT Services group. The “cash group” is the new Printing
and Personal Systems Group, which amounts to about 51 percent of overall
sales. Marshall argues that HP Executive Vice President Todd Bradley, who runs
the PC and printer group, will be an effective steward of that unit’s
contribution to HP’s overall cash flow, allowing the excess to be reinvested
in the “growth group,” and to rebuild the balance sheet. “While we expect HP
to continue to post revenue declines of about 5 percent year-on-year for the
next 18 months before the company becomes a GDP-like grower, we believe annual
earnings power can be maintained at about $4 per share during this
transformation period,” Marshall writes. How will HP maintain its earnings
while revenues slide? Reducing headcount further — Marshall sees another
15,000 jobs on top of the 29,000 already announced — plus further reductions
in the overall share count. Add to that a further tightening of operating
expenses, and HP, he argues, can maintain profits at or near $4 a share
through 2017. ]]> http://allthingsd.com/20120926/bears-stalk-hp-shares-ahead-
of-analysts-meeting/feed/ 0 Eight Questions for Hewlett-Packard Software Head
George Kadifa http://allthingsd.com/20120925/eight-questions-for-hewlett-
packard-software-head-george-kadifa/ http://allthingsd.com/20120925/eight-
questions-for-hewlett-packard-software-head-george-kadifa/#comments Tue, 25
Sep 2012 14:48:17 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=253890 It wasn’t so long ago
that Hewlett-Packard looked like a hardware company transforming itself into a
software company. Until former CEO Léo Apotheker was fired by the company’s
board of directors and replaced with current CEO Meg Whitman, the official
line at HP was that the way out of its troubles was to divest itself of things
like PCs and invest heavily in software. One expression of that strategy — and
a controversial one at that — was the nearly $12 billion acquisition of the
British software firm Autonomy, announced 13 months ago. HP ultimately didn’t
spin off its PC business, but its acquisition of Autonomy stuck. Now it is
firmly part of HP’s software business. As CEO Meg Whitman struggles to turn HP
around, software is still a key part of her plans. While Whitman has made no
secret of her opinion that Autonomy needs attention, there are some solid bits
of HP’s software business — like Vertica and ArcSight — that are showing
significant promise, if only they could grow. Finding a way to get them
growing is the job of George Kadifa. In June, HP named him as executive vice
president, head of the company’s software business and a member of its
executive council. Kadifa knows a bit about the software business. He spent
seven years as a senior vice president at Oracle, and then ran his own
company, Corio, for six years, until it was acquired by IBM for $182 million
in 2005. From there, he went to investment firm Silver Lake, where, as
partner, he pushed portfolio companies to improve their operations. Kadifa sat
down with AllThingsD last week at the software unit’s new headquarters in
Sunnyvale, Calif., for his first interview since joining HP. We talked about
how he plans to fix its weaknesses, improve its strengths and make software a
more sizable piece of HP’s overall business. AllThingsD: George, you joined HP
to head up its software business unit in June. You’ve reached the 100-day
mark, so give us your assessment of where you see things now and where they’re
going. Kadifa: A lot of good things are happening. We’re at about $4 billion
in revenue, so if you look at HP Software as its own business, we’re about the
fifth- or sixth-largest software business in the world. We have a great
customer base; having worked at IBM and Oracle and now HP, customers really
like us, versus previous experience. And we have a lot of products. A lot of
them we acquired rather than built in-house. Among the recent acquisitions,
Vertica is one where the consensus seems to be that it was a pretty good deal.
Where do you see Vertica going in particular, and what sets it apart? One is
the technology, which we think is second to none. When you think about it, the
idea of taking data in columns and then arranging it in a row fashion, it
seems like sort of a trivial difference. But it’s really unbelievable what it
gives you in terms of capabilities. Say you’re storing a thousand names,
you’ve got first names and last names. Let’s say five of those guys are named
Arik. Normally you’d store five Ariks in a column. But here, instead of
listing the name five times, you make a note above it with a five, so you know
the name occurs five times. Now when you search through that list it’s so much
more efficient, it’s two or three orders of magnitude faster, which means it’s
100 to 1,000 times faster than classic relationional technology. It has turned
out to be a real diamond for us. Yet it’s a small diamond. Yes, it’s growing,
but how do you get it to grow fast enough that it becomes a more meaningful
part of HP? It’s a fair question. What we started with was a business with
revenue in the low millions. It wasn’t in the $100 million range in revenue.
It was really a project with some customers. We took it, and now it’s in the
middle-double-digit millions. I can see us getting to $100 million with
Vertica in a very short period of time. And there’s no reason it can’t be a
billion-dollar business. Let’s wrestle with the situation at Autonomy a
little. You just named Robert Youngjohns to run it. Unlike Vertica, the
consensus here is that Autonomy was an expensive deal that hasn’t come close
to meeting expectations yet. What do you see happening there? We just had a
two-day planning meeting with everyone from Autonomy, where we went through
the current status and looked at where we’re heading. The key for us right now
is to get fiscal year 2013 on track, and that starts Nov. 1, so we’re working
on that right now. Basically, when you look at Autonomy, the core unit is the
IDOL Engine, which is the unique capability of meaning-based computing. We’re
going to double down on that. In our labs in Cambridge, England, we have 40 or
50 mathematicians writing algorithms. And we’re going to build a team here in
the U.S. to productize it and create a platform around it, because it has that
potential. Frankly, the way Autonomy was managed previously, they put a lot
more emphasis into enabling applications, which was fine, but our belief is
that there’s a broad agenda, which is creating a platform around meaning-based
computing. So we will maintain those apps, but at the same time we’ll open up
the capabilities to a broader set of players outside HP. It sounds like what
Autonomy was doing was growing by acquisitions and then creating a more
vertical stack of applications prior to HP’s ownership, rather than taking a
broader, more horizontal approach. It sounds to me like HP wants to make
Autonomy more horizontal. Is the potential there? You’re correct. And, yes,
the potential is there. I asked Autonomy that very question about why they
went vertical instead of horizontal, and the answer that I got was that it
came down to a difference of culture between the U.S. and Europe. In Europe,
they tend to make things complex in order to create more value. For example,
they saw the IDOL engine as too complex to just give it to people. Instead
they thought they should acquire vendors and then create value by enabling
applications. Here we take something that’s complex and we ask how we might
simplify it in order to give it more scale for a bigger market. So, some of
that difference was cultural, and some of it was that I think they fell in
love with these acquisitions. … We think Autonomy’s technology has broader
implications. And to reach that potential, we have to open it up as much as
possible. And we’re also working with other organizations inside HP — PCs,
printers, servers — to basically produce additional synergies. Are the teams
ready and primed? Meg Whitman, your CEO, and CFO Cathie Lesjak have made no
secret that, so far, they have seen Autonomy’s ability to respond to deals
that had been teed up by HP as lacking. Is the structure in place to address
that problem? It’s not in place yet, but the situation has settled down
somewhat. The processes are working. The reason is that initially we kind of
left Autonomy alone, and then we tossed a bunch of deals at Autonomy. The
initial plan was to keep it intact, have the HP salesforce bring in deals, and
everyone would be happy. One problem is that there were too many deals, and
second is that the deals weren’t well-qualified. So what we did next was put
in place a management process around sales cycles at Autonomy. There’s been a
lot of turnover there. Obviously, the former CEO, Mike Lynch, left, but so did
a lot of the people who worked with him. Does that hurt the institutional
memory at all? No. Basically we lost the top half-dozen people. And you always
expect that with an acquisition, especially with people who have grown up as
entrepreneurs and will always be entrepreneurs. The remaining people running
the products lines are still around, and so is the salesforce. The development
guys in Cambridge and Chicago are still there. Michael Dell has basically said
he intends to keep growing his company by acquisition. Your boss, Meg, has
said that we can expect no major acquisitions for the forseeable future — at
least until the balance sheet is in better shape. If there were going to be
acquisitions, even small ones, I would imagine they’d more likely be in
software. Is that a fair statement? I don’t want to say anything on Meg’s
behalf. From a software point of view, if there are tuck-in acquisitions that
can help us develop our technology, I’ll go and request to do it. The cash we
generate from software would cover us. So that’s the thinking right now. We
need to learn as a business how to grow organically because that’s where all
the value is. At Silver Lake we did analysis on companies that grew by
acquisition: Oracle, SAP, Microsoft, IBM, EMC and others. You find that their
revenues grow and their profits grow. But what doesn’t grow, and what actually
shrank from 2006 to 2011, is their multiples. Their valuations multiples
shrank. What the market is saying is that just making acquisitions doesn’t add
any value unless they create organic growth. That is how we look at it here.
We’ve done a ton of acquisitions, so the task now is to create more organic
growth because that is what the market will value. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120925/eight-questions-for-hewlett-packard-software-
head-george-kadifa/feed/ 0 HP Shares Tank on Outlook and Analyst Downgrades
http://allthingsd.com/20120823/hp-shares-tank-on-outlook-and-analyst-
downgrades/ http://allthingsd.com/20120823/hp-shares-tank-on-outlook-and-
analyst-downgrades/#comments Thu, 23 Aug 2012 15:02:18 +0000
http://allthingsd.com/?p=244334 Shares of Hewlett-Packard have fallen by more
than 6 percent this morning, as the markets have taken their time to think
over the implications of the company’s third-quarter earnings report
yesterday. While HP had more or less teed up the expectations for the nearly
$10 billion in one-time charges that led in turn to the largest single-quarter
loss in its history, it was the outlook and description of a long, arduous and
painful turnaround process that is giving investors fits. Meanwhile, analysts
have piled on with a batch of downgrades: Kulbinder Garcha at Credit Suisse
cut his price target to $25 from $30 a share, which, when compared to the
estimate of other equities research outfits, looks downright sunny. Brent
Bracelin at Pacific Crest Securities slashed his estimate of HP’s fiscal 2013
revenue by more than $2 billion, and said he sees a possibility for the shares
to hit $16, which would be lower than the $16.50 price it hit in 2004. “HP
could remain challenged on multiple fronts as it attempts to transform an
increasingly challenged business model and exposure profile,” he wrote. Chris
Whitmore of Deutsche Bank Securities, already an HP bear with a “sell” rating,
lowered his price target even further, to $15 a share. Whitmore, in a note to
clients today, was having none of the reassuring message coming from HP CEO
Meg Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak on yesterday’s conference call. “Barring a
significant change in strategic direction, we anticipate protracted declines
in HP’s three major businesses to continue, making sustained growth in cash
flow and EPS challenging,” he wrote. “That said, management is likely to
reinvest headcount reduction and related cost savings to improve HP’s
competitive position over the long haul. However, these investments will take
time and it is unclear when these investments will translate into better
product positioning. We estimate 24-plus months.” As of 11 am ET, HP shares
are trading at $17.94, down $1.26, or more than 6.5 percent. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120823/hp-shares-tank-on-outlook-and-analyst-
downgrades/feed/ 0 HP's Q3 Conference Call: Lots of Problems, a Few Bright
Spots http://allthingsd.com/20120822/liveblogging-hps-q3-earnings-conference-
call/ http://allthingsd.com/20120822/liveblogging-hps-q3-earnings-conference-
call/#comments Wed, 22 Aug 2012 20:58:50 +0000 http://allthingsd.com/?p=244119
The aircraft carrier Hewlett-Packard is still trying to turn the corner, but
man is it going to take awhile and a lot of patience from investors,
shareholders and, frankly, its employees, too. That’s the message coming from
CEO Meg Whitman on the occasion of its third quarter earnings report, which
just crossed the wires about an hour ago. Expect more explanations about the
state of the turnaround from Whitman and CFO Cathie Lesjak on the conference
call with analysts which is set to get under way any minute. 2:03 pm: We’re
live and waiting for the peppy hold music to come to an end. And the call is
starting with a word from the operator. Starting with the preliminaries.
Forward looking statements, blah blah blah…. CEO Meg Whitman is speaking. “We
have made progress on our turnaround.” Whitman: We have a lot of challenges,
some are macroeconomic, some are about the business and frankly some of these
are about HP’s execution. Whitman: While revenue declined, the trajectory of
the decline improved. Whitman: When you look at our performance during the
quarter, there were things we did well and things we could have done better.
Storage, networking, printing did well. Whitman: Good news from 3Par.
Networking sales up 10 percent when normalized for a divestiture. (What did HP
divest in this area again?) Whitman: On a less positive note, the mainstream
server business declined. Hyperscaling is looking good for the future. She’s
also talking about some ink and paper changes in some countries. Also a
technology that allows phones to connect to HP printers via Cloudprint.
Whitman: HP has 750 unique cloud systems customers. Also a version of the
cloud for airlines. Also we released our first public cloud services. Whitman:
We continue to leverage the IP of our acquisitions: Autonomy, Vertica and
others. Whitman: Now customer wins: Russian Railways engaged HP Software. The
U.S. Air Force selected HP to provide PCs and servers. Nascar is a new
customer. Consolidated Graphics, a big printing services provider, bought 10
Indigo printers. These are big printers. Whitman: There’s nowhere we are not
where we need to be. Enterprise Services: She’s going over the personnel
changes running Services. “ES is in a multi-year turnaround. Progress will not
be linear. We will turn ES around, but it will take some time.” PCs. The
reality is, we’re locked in serious competitive battles, and we intend to win.
(She’s looking at you, Lenovo!) Whitman: Autonomy still needs a lot of
attention. HP has instituted a global dashboard to monitor engagements. We
crossed a big milestone for Autonomy Vault. I missed the number but I think
she said 10,000 customers. Sorry if I got that one wrong. Whitman: The
integration of PSG and IPC (PCs and printers) is under way. We streamlined
Enterprise Group sales and management. Whitman: 11,500 employees will leave
the company in fiscal 2012, which is above the 9,000 expected. Now she’s
talking about headwinds. Whitman: I’ve talked before about the tectonic plates
that are moving the industry. HP needs to shift its portfolio, and will
require some trade-offs and time. Whitman: Macro headwinds will continue and
keep revenue under pressure. The near-term outlook will be challenged.
Execution: We’ve made some changes that will be a distraction in the short
term, but good in the long term. Whitman is wrapping up her prepared remarks.
$2.1 billion in free cash flow and reduction of net debt by $1.5 billion. 2:18
pm: And now CFO Cathie Lesjak is speaking. Lesjak is running through the
numbers, most of which were already in the press release. Lesjak: PSG Revenue
of $8.6 billion, down 10 percent. Total units shipped down 10 percent year on
year. Soft in Asia and Americas. Consumer down 12 percent and commercial down
9 percent. Lesjak: In printers, demand environment remains a headwind. We need
to reduce channel inventory through close inspection … Lesjak: Total printer
unit shipments down 17 percent year on year. Services: We are recording a non-
cash pre-tax charge of $8 billion for the impairment of goodwill related to
EDS. We do not expect this to incur any future cash expenditures. Lesjak: We
saw strong sequential growth in contract signings for strategic customers.
2:24 pm: ESSN: $5.1 billion in revenue, down 4 percent. 3Par grew 60 percent.
There’s a bright spot. BCS still in trouble. Non-stop server revenue grew
double digits, but that didn’t help BCS revenue to grow. Lesjak: We signed 46
new logos in the quarter. Lesjak: We have a lot of work to do to improve
Autonomy performance. Lesjak: Capital allocation. We remain committed to
rebuilding the balance sheet. Total growth $9.9 billion. Increased the
dividend by 10 percent. We have been working to improve our cash conversion
cycle, but at 27 days it’s still one day higher than before. Lesjak: We are in
the early stages of our turnaround and restructuring. In services, our
diligence around account profitability is impacting our ability to sign new
accounts. Some benefits will offset some of the headwinds. Demand continues to
be an issue in PSG and IPG. The pricing environment in the hardware business
remains competitive. Environment is more challenging than we thought even as
recently as two months ago. Currency headwind is up 3 percent year on year.
Lesjak: EPS outlook $4.05 to $4.07 non-GAAP. GAAP will be a loss north of $2.
Lesjak: We expect to provide outlook at the analyst meeting on Oct. 3. Q&A;
begins. First question comes from Barclays: Printing. With channel inventory
high, the Street was looking for 13.7 percent operating margin, and it was
higher at 15.8 percent. What will the earnings hit be in the future when you
pull back inventory? Lesjak: We continue to face headwinds of lower volumes,
and the year-on-year increase in margins was impacted by three things. Last
year there was impact from the tsunami. We also had improved hardware margins
because of a higher mix of higher-profit printers, and a higher mix of laser
to inkjet. Lesjak: The yen will remain strong year on year. That’s not going
to help HP in the current FX. Lesjak: The printer sellout in July left us with
more inventory that we expected. Question from Goldman Sachs: Given comments
you made about being aggressive in PCs, who should we think about ASPs and
gross margins in PSG? Lesjak: The opex for PSG was 4.7 percent, which is down
year over year, but it’s in the range we’ve been targeting for some time.
Lesjak: Commodity parts prices were unfavorable, LCD and DRAM prices are going
up slightly. We do expect the demand environment to remain challenging.
Whitman is speaking: We are under attack by very strong competitive pressures.
We’re responding with product lineup, thin and light notebooks, Windows 8
tablet for the enterprise, tablets combined with laptops for consumers. And
also streamlining. Putting PSG and IPG [together] has helped control costs and
things like freight and logistics. We’re going to defend our No. 1 position in
the marketplace. (Hear that, Lenovo?!?) Question from Toni Sacconaghi: Missed
the first part of it. Given launch of Win 8 at the very end of FY12, how do
you expect inventory of PCs to change? Lesjak: Channel inventory at IPG is
down on a dollar basis. Sell-through drove weeks of inventory higher than we
think acceptable. Toni is now trying to drill down on printer supplies
inventory. Lesjak: We are not expecting anything cataclysmic in Q4. We will
continue to work on bringing down channel inventory. Question from Morgan
Stanley: Can you comment on linearity in other business? Can you comment on
signs of stability that Cisco saw? Lesjak: We don’t have a significant
linearity difference. The entire quarter was fairly weak. 2:41 pm: Question
from BMO: Revenue trends in IPG and PC division, but talk about HP in total
relative to normal seasonal expectations. Lesjak: Several key considerations
in Q4 guidance are related to revenue. The macro is softer than expected in Q3
and we don’t expect it to get better in Q4. We expect to see well below normal
seasonality. Challenges persist in legal situation with Oracle and getting
software licenses up. The realignment of the sales force, while creating
problems in the short term, will pay back longer term. Lesjak: We are
maniacally focused on cost reduction. We’re going to get the benefits from the
charges we’ve taken. 2:44 pm: Question from Stifel Nicolaus about servers: You
talked about broad weakness. What are you seeing competitively in light of the
product transitions to eighth-gen servers? Whitman: We have some business
model innovation that is required to compete in that business. Right now the
hyperscale business is dilutive to ISS margins. We are still seeing weaknesses
in mainstream ISS (ISS = industry standard servers). It’s an important
business for HP and we have some action items to address problems in that
business. Question from Raymond James: Should we think about the $8 billion
writedown based on past problems or future deterioration? Lesjak: There’s a
number of different factors, the trading value of HP shares are a factor. It
doesn’t result in any future cash expenditures. Whitman: I think I’ve said
from the beginning, this was a business in need of a turnaround, I decided to
make a leadership change. This is what we need to do to get the business on a
better track. The account basis of accountabiilty got diffused across the
organization. The person in charge needs to be in charge. Whitman: I feel
better about that business now than I have at any time in the last 12 months.
Q: I see a three-cent benefit to EPS. Lesjak: Some of the benefit will
counteract the headwinds, but that is the guidance. Question about 2013 and
the pace of reinvestment. Will that require EPS to decline? Whitman: We’ll
give guidance in early October. But here’s the situation as I see it. First we
are facing macro economic trends. Western Europe and China for one. There are
challenges for PCs and printers, and price pressures across the board. The
competitor (Lenovo) is not losing money. Also, we have some execution
challenges. There are still some very serious execution issues in this
business. Whitman: We set up a very crisp strategy in printers, we are the
acknowledged market segment and we have some weakened competitors and we need
to go after them. When we look at 2013 we’re going to tumble all the pluses
and minuses. There are going to be puts and takes. Question from Wells Fargo:
Talk about whether you can really focus on the long term while you’re working
so hard on the near term. Whitman: We have to focus on the short and the long
term. If we don’t fix long-term problems we won’t have money to invest in
longer-term problems. Our product portfolio is vast. My deeply held belief is
that focus is going to be important. Behind the curtain there are smaller
initiatives where we could get bigger bangs for the buck. I feel like we’re
much farther along than we were nine months ago. Whitman: We have lots of
little initiatives within the company, some of which we may shut down. They’re
not big dollar programs. Lesjak: This is more focused attention. We need to
focus more, not less. Question from Credit Suisse about free cash flow, which
looks to be $5 billion this year. If this is the rate of cash you can
generate, it may take two more years from where we are now to give more cash
back. Lesjak: We generated $2.1 billion this quarter. At the same time, we
reduced shares outstanding by 17 million shares and increased the dividend. We
are making progress. 2:57 pm: Question from Shannon Cross (always
interesting). What are you seeing in China? Whitman: Let me elevate to BRIC:
Russia and India were good, Brazil was mid to mixed, China was not so good. We
are rebuilding the business in China with a new team there. We are also
rebuilding our channel in China. This is also where we’re rebulding our
channel with the enterprise business. But we are seeing a slowdown in China.
At the same time, we can still improve our execution in China. There’s a
regime change coming there, and we’ll see what the stimulus and public sector
spending will look like. And we’re done with the call. ]]>
http://allthingsd.com/20120822/liveblogging-hps-q3-earnings-conference-
call/feed/ 0