Watch a Demo Log in | Register Products Products Moab Cloud HPC Suite Moab
Cloud/NODUS Cloud Bursting Nitro High ThroughputTORQUE The HPC Suite
Accounting ManagerGridPowerRemote VisualizationReporting and
AnalyticsViewpoint Portal Solutions Verticals CommercialFinancialOil and
GasManufacturingGovernment and Academic How Can We Help You Speed and
ScaleUser ProductivityCollaborationCost Reduction and EfficiencyService
GuaranteesJust Make it Work Cross-Platform Solutions Partners Technology
PartnersResellers/IntegratorsIndustry Partners Services TrainingProfessional
Services Support Customer SupportTechnical Support – InformationDownload
Center Eval/Demo RequestMoab Cloud HPC SuiteNitroDocker IntegrationTORQUE
Support / Docs Submit Support CaseDocumentationEOL Policy Company Our
Customers Customer Profiles News and Events EventsIn The News Company Overview
Company HistoryManagement Team Tech Talk VideosDemos Contact Us
CareersInformation Request Demo/EvalHome » Partners » Cloud Systems
IntegratorsCloud Systems Integrators AMERICAS Greenlight Group is an
established consulting and systems integration services organization founded
on the principles of accountability, integrity and relationships. We don’t see
ourselves as emergency personnel who only rush in to solve a crisis and then
disappear. Our approach is to understand your company and create a true
partnership with you in order to achieve the best possible outcome. Greenlight
will create customized IT monitoring that puts you in control of your IT
services. You will achieve greater control and security with an IT management
and monitoring system that reflects the services essential to your success. By
understanding your priorities we can engineer solutions that are best for your
company to protect your most vital services. To learn more, visit
www.greenlightgroup.com. Since 1996, Pepperweed Consulting has been a leader
in IT enterprise management and integration, working with Fortune 500 clients
and large-scale government agencies to integrate their IT silos together
allowing CIOs to deliver IT as a strategic and aligned business service. With
over 2500 successful IT integration projects, Pepperweed brings together
multi-vendor technology, services, support, and enriches them with internally
developed components to meet each project’s specific goals. As an HP Software
Elite Partner and the largest global provider of HP Software support with over
120 technical certifications, Pepperweed has the experience and the training
to meet a full range of IT integration challenges. For more information, visit
www.pepperweed.com. Seamless Technologies, Inc. is a solution provider and
software manufacturer that is passionate about helping our customers
accelerate their time to value while reducing cost and increasing efficiency
from IT automation, cloud computing and service management solutions. Our DATA
PUMP™ products dynamically enrich the information stored in leading
configuration management systems (CMDBs) via robust and seamless integration
with the most common discovery and management tools. Seamless has a long
history of providing exceptional service to our customers who include
commercial enterprises, government organizations and service providers. For
more information visit us at www.seamlessti.com. ASIA PACIFIC NovaGlobal
Private Limited is a Singapore-based company operating primarily in the ASEAN
region including Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand & Vietnam. The company is a
leading system integrator for HPCC. It partners with IBM in deploying cutting-
edge technologies such as xCAT and GPFS. The company is a pioneer in deploying
Infiniband-based clusters in the region. As a leader in providing solutions
for computational science, NovaGlobal is partnering Accelrys as the sole
distributor to actively address emerging opportunities in computational
chemistry, biochemistry and nanoscience. The vision is to be a leading SBI
(Scientific Business Intelligence) system solution provider deploying
Accelrys’ Pipeline Pilot as the scientific informatics platform of choice.
With the acquired expertise in building and managing HPC systems, the company
is positioning itself to be an early adopter of Cloud Computing technology.
NovaGlobal is partnering closely with Adaptive Computing Enterprises to
address opportunities emerging in the region. For more information, visit
www.novaglobal.com.sg. EMEA Automation Logic is a professional services firm
providing consultancy and support services to large enterprises in the field
of data centre automation. Our clients come from a wide range of industry
sectors including telecommunications, financial services, technology
outsourcing, healthcare, and government. Our client services cover three
areas: business case analysis, data center automation strategy and technology
and process delivery. To learn more, visit www.automationlogic.com. BPEX is a
European Systems Integration and Solution Provider specialized in enterprise
class IT Infrastructure and Business Process Automation solutions. We partner
with leading technology vendors like HP, Symantec and Adaptive Computing. Our
core strength is the Automation of complex Private Cloud and Data Center
Provisioning Services offered by in-house or outsources Infrastructure
Providers and we help them to drastically reduce manual efforts, optimize
resource utilization and increase service delivery quality. Ultimately we help
our clients to reduce their operational and capital expenses as an
Infrastructure Service Provider. EXPLORETechnology Partners
Resellers/Integrators Industry Partners © 2019 Adaptive Computing, Inc. Legal
Notices Privacy Policy Security Advisory Contact Us