WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello John Paczkowski ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow
@JohnPaczkowski Recent Posts by John Paczkowski Apple R&D;: The "R" Stands for
Rumor October 13, 2008 at 11:17 am PT Tweet Share Print One of the investments
we make is to introduce new products that initially cost more because they
deliver an entirely new level of value to the customer. Then we ride the cost
curves down with value engineering and volume manufacturing, leaving us far
head of our competitors. We have some of these types of investments in front
of us that I can’t discuss.” — Apple Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook, July
21, 2008 The media will gather tomorrow at Apple’s Cupertino, Calif.,
headquarters for an invitation-only event–presumably about updates to its
MacBook and MacBook Pro lines. And as with every Apple (AAPL) product launch,
tomorrow’s has been preceded by feverish speculation about what form, exactly,
those updates will take. Among the rumors currently making the rounds: Apple
will uncrate a new line of MacBooks whose cases are carved from a single brick
of aircraft-grade aluminum. Apple’s refreshed MacBook line will include a
machine priced at below $1000, perhaps even as low as $800. The new MacBooks
will feature glass, multi-touch trackpads and LED-backlit displays. They’ll
swap out Intel’s chipset–not the central processor–for Nvidia’s MCP7A, which
reportedly blows the doors off Intel’s G45 in the graphics department. Blu-ray
will be offered as an option on high-end models. Finally, Apple’s new line of
portables will include the unmatchable “state-of-the-art new product” to which
Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer and COO Tim Cook referred earlier this year, and
that product will be a tablet. Something along the lines of the “MacBook
Touch” described by MacDailyNews back in July. Think MacBook screen, possibly
a bit smaller, in glass with iPhone-like but fuller-featured multi-touch.
Gesture library. Full Mac OS X. This is why they bought P.A. Semi. Possibly
with Immersion’s haptic tech. Slot-loading SuperDrive. Accelerometer. GPS. …
App Store-compatible, able to run Mac apps, too.” An interesting spread of
rumors, some quite likely, others improbable … and yet entirely plausible
because, after all, it’s Apple we’re talking about. We’ll find out which of
these proves true tomorrow at 10 a.m. PDT. I’ll be covering the event live, so
be sure pay us a visit tomorrow. Tagged with: accelerometer, aircraft-grade,
aluminum, App Store, Apple, backlit display, below, Blu-ray, central
processor, chipset, competitor, cost curve, Cupertino, customer, G45, GBS,
gesture libarary, graphics, haptic, headquarters, high-end, Immersion, Intel,
iPhone, John Paczkowski, MacBook, MacBook Pro, MacBook Touch, multi-touch,
Nvidia MCP7A, option, OS X, P.A. Semi, Peter Oppenheimer, portables, product
launch, rumor, screen, slot-loading, SuperDrive, tablet, Tim Cook, trackpad,
value engineering, volume manufacturing Late Start May Be Tempering China
Mobile’s iPhone Preorders December 30, 2013 at 10:17 am PT Twitter’s Tanking
December 30, 2013 at 6:49 am PT 2013 Was a Good Year for Chromebooks December
29, 2013 at 2:12 pm PT BlackBerry Pulls Latest Twitter for BB10 Update
December 29, 2013 at 5:58 am PT Apple CEO Tim Cook Made $4.25 Million This
Year December 28, 2013 at 12:05 pm PT Latest Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128
Search » Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say Goodbye and We Say Hello Walt
Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and the Corrosion of Silicon Valley
Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe All the Crazy Hardware the NSA
Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View all today’s news » Uncovering a
More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews Lenovo’s Bendy
Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren Goode in Product Reviews Space
Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup Katherine
Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data Beamed to Your Phone Walt
Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A Solid Windows Tablet in
Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all reviews » I think the NSA
has a job to do and we need the NSA. But as (physicist) Robert Oppenheimer
said, “When you see something that is technically sweet, you go ahead and do
it and argue about what to do about it only after you’ve had your technical
success. That is the way it was with the atomic bomb.”— Phil Zimmerman, PGP
inventor and Silent Circle co-founder, in an interview with Om Malik
AllThingsD by Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine
Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike
Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news,
analysis and opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is
different from other sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media
styles, different topics, different formats and different sources. Read more »
About Us » Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy »
FAQ » Terms of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip »
Daily Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most
influential figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences:
D: All Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us
on Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version