WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Liz Gannes ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @LizGannes Recent
Posts by Liz Gannes Google Finally Adds Do-Not-Track Support in Latest Test
Version of Chrome September 13, 2012 at 2:20 pm PT Tweet Share Print Google
has included support for the Do Not Track privacy setting in its latest Chrome
developer build, which was released today. Do Not Track — which aims to help
users opt out of being tracked across Web sites for the purposes of targeted
advertising — is contentious and still somewhat theoretical. But since Chrome
is close to becoming the world’s most-used browser, if it’s not already, its
support for DNT is pretty important. Of all the major browser providers,
Google had moved the slowest on Do Not Track, but had earlier this year agreed
at the request of the Obama Administration that it would implement DNT. Google
spokesman Rob Shilkin said in an emailed statement, “We undertook to honor an
agreement on DNT that the industry reached with the White House early this
year. To that end we’re making this setting visible in our Chromium developer
channel, so that it will be available in upcoming versions of Chrome by year’s
end.” When Do Not Track is turned on within a browser, a snippet that
specifies “DNT:1” is added to the request header whenever a user wants to go
to a new Web site. Once Chrome adds this to its full release, that will happen
across all major browsers. But critics say it’s not necessarily clear what
sites and advertisers have to do in response to DNT being turned on. That
could be a significant problem, because users will think they’re not being
tracked since they explicitly changed a setting (seems like a reasonable
assumption!) — but they may just be making a request that can be ignored. Talk
about defeating the purpose. All the Web and advertising players are still
sorting out how to deal with this; some, like Google, more reluctantly than
others. For instance, since Microsoft decided to turn on DNT by default in
Internet Explorer 10, developers of the Apache Web server are now saying they
will ignore Do Not Track requests from IE visitors because it goes against the
spirit of DNT being a choice. Also, even though Facebook is doing its own ad
exchange, it hasn’t agreed to participate in Do Not Track at all. Image via
Maxthon corporate blog. Tagged with: Apache, Chrome, Chromium, DNT, do-not-
track, Google, Internet Explorer, Microsoft, Mozilla Startups Scrape Your
Financial Data for Good. (No, Really!) December 31, 2013 at 10:56 am PT
Quantified Elf: Tracking the Santa Trackers December 24, 2013 at 9:32 am PT
Venture Capitalist Tries to Drum Up Support for Splitting California Into Six
States December 23, 2013 at 3:14 pm PT General Catalyst Raises $675M Seventh
Fund December 23, 2013 at 8:00 am PT Knewton Raises $51M for Personalized
Learning December 20, 2013 at 10:03 am PT Latest Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
section&query;=Network+Effect Search » Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say
Goodbye and We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and
the Corrosion of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe
All the Crazy Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View
all today’s news » Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in
Product Reviews Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren
Goode in Product Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System
Offers Better Backup Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data
Beamed to Your Phone Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A
Solid Windows Tablet in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all
reviews » I’m a giant vat of creative juices.— David Pogue on why he’s joining
Yahoo AllThingsD by Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski
Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren
Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted
to news, analysis and opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is
different from other sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media
styles, different topics, different formats and different sources. Read more »
About Us » Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy »
FAQ » Terms of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip »
Daily Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most
influential figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences:
D: All Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us
on Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version