Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
1/15/2013 5:51PM Smart Phones (Finally) Get Smart Keyboards Typing for long
periods on a glass keyboard can be a problem but two new apps - SwiftKey 3 and
SnapKeys - and the new Blackberry 10 are changing how it's done. WSJ's
Katherine Boehret likes the approaches but says they will take some getting
used to. Transcript This transcript has been automatically generated and may
not be 100% accurate.I ... she deeper at Apple Wall Street Journal ... if
you're one of the many people here hate striking on on screen keyboard that is
using glass screen and tapping away ... you are not alone ... this is a very
common problem and one of the most frustrating things for people who use the
guns in answering phones ... with these types of keyboards so this link ... to
collect data couple apps that make this process a little easier ... I tested
out Swiss ski freeing it which is a three dollars and ninety nine cent app
from the Android Google Play store ... and I also took a look at something
cold snap he is after I ... strips Keith rain is a really smart keyboard a
basically has studied all sorts of language across the internet ... great all
sorts of Internet behavior and different wording and steady but people say and
what words come before other words ... he uses that knowledge in the ... so
that you can tied to enable predict but you're going to say after every single
word ... seeking just keep on typing and select predicted words that pop up
... after you've typed just one ladder and the process that is extremely fast
you can just Viv along through e-mails ... and I really enjoyed it also has a
smarts feature that knows where the space but go ... hand in support of fifty
four different languages with alterations the plane which is like British
English or ... Australian English so ... they will very quickly switched it
screened at those different languages so if you have different ILX ... you can
switch between those as well ... so I really enjoyed using the keyboard it
with the season can happen and it's very into it ... I tested out snack he is
XII and this is a new keyboard at very different kinds that to kind of throws
the whole idea of Koriki word out the window ... and in place that that layout
gives you four different squares ... in just twelve letters on the square and
found quite bizarre and it is and he really just have to tap on these squares
... to create your birds ... to feed on the one of the letters you want on a
square feet at the center of the screen where there are no letters and hope
that if the engine that's using the app gets the word right that you're trying
to spell ... in many cases this type of real learning curve I had to try a lot
of different words before in got it right ... in and I and I was thirty
desperately hoping for the Acree keyboard layout after I use it for awhile
that ... if you really wanna try learning something very different snap peas
that I might be the way to go ... is attractive and that it doesn't take up a
lot of screen space on the bottom of your screen only half the Foursquare's
... another nice feature is that's it basically allows you to use your time
which could be thicker fingers then you never really Nestle are trying to tap
so that's also a bonus ... I got a chance to get my hands on the BlackBerry
ten keyboard very quickly and it will be coming out on January thirty ...
they've incorporated some very cool the technology in this ... scene features
that I wanna play now are that it suggests ... predictive words as you go ...
and those words appear right within the keyboard and we see a wary that is
what you're trying to spell ... you immediately flight apt to throw that word
into a sentence that your spelling out ... and then just keep going from there
this is easy to do with just one hand on the device ... and added that the
very attractive feature ... and it also has something that's like a heat map
for each key is that we can tell where you're touching he's he's the St X the
bottom right corner of the tee hee whenever you type it ... but not quite the
entire key ... that keyboard will earn your B he beer cans every month I will
be different because they use their keyboards differently ... the options out
there if you're frustrated with the process of typing on glass ... and making
mistakes and constantly having to look down as you walk and use your phone ...
Katie Brat at the Wall Street Journal ... Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed
Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report
Good News for President Trump? 1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s
Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting
Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More → Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected
Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled
House elected Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle
with President Trump over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses
Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We
Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks
to Border Wall Demands as Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven:
One Family's Journey After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More →
Moving Upstream 9:56 Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to
Traffic and Sabbath 12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting
speed bumps in the U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one
in 10 residents has rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be
embracing them. WSJ’s Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and
potential lessons of the e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-
Tube Steak 12/11/2018 5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take
Extreme Measures 12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to
Identify Good and Evil 11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the
Cockpit 11/12/2018 5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job
Report Good News For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a
blockbuster jobs report despite a trade war with China and a partial
government shutdown. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for
President Trump. Photo: Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue
Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42 Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It
1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM
3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019
9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28
Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019
4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019
6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019
5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't
Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity
12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content 11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now
She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing violence from her hometown in Honduras,
Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands of miles with her daughter to the Mexico
- U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall Street Journal followed her as she weighed
her options to cross into the U.S., hoping to leave behind her past.
Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle to Keep a Son's Promise
12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence Stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China Manipulate Amazon
12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in the Restaurant
Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The
Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 DeepSense,
based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence to assess
job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest to
Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition Spurs
Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 1:30
Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape One's Success 1/24/2018 1:00
Sponsored Golf's Data Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 27:34 Sponsored Creating the
Future Workforce 1/17/2017 3:39PM 2:21 Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love?
9/22/2016 11:59PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On