WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Katherine Boehret ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @kabster728
The Digital Solution > Websites In Search Of… Images Worth 1,000 Results
January 12, 2010 at 4:47 pm PT Tweet Share Print See More Reviews » If you’ve
ever visualized something in your head but couldn’t think of its name, you
might appreciate a new method of online discovery: visual search. Screenshot
of Google Image Swirl This week, I tested forms of visual search from two
companies that hold some serious clout when it comes to hunting around
online–Google and Microsoft. Although Google has become our go-to site for
looking anything up on the Internet, its searches are dense with text.
Microsoft’s Bing search engine, which was introduced last spring, is marketed
as a Google alternative that aims to return more useful query data on the
first results page. Both companies know there are times when text, alone, just
won’t do. Google (GOOG) and Microsoft (MSFT) have long offered options for
searching the Images section of almost any search term to find a visual
representation of it. But now the companies are allowing visually minded users
to scour through images to more efficiently pinpoint the picture or
information they want. These new visual searches are a bit different. And they
also differ from one another. Users can use Google’s Image Swirl search to
sift through some 200,000 queries of images. And Microsoft offers Bing Visual
Search as a way of performing searches on images that are tagged with useful
data. Google Image Swirl still requires you to input text search terms, but
Bing Visual Search lets you select images the whole time, without typing
search terms. The ability to search using images alone is also being explored,
and a number of mobile apps make this possible, which I’ll briefly talk about
in a bit. Google’s Image Swirl, http://image-swirl.googlelabs.com/, is
currently categorized by the company as a Google Labs project, meaning that
it’s in an experimental stage. It lets users search for images in certain
categories that, according to computer vision algorithms, look like they would
fit into the search results. Unlike Google queries using the “Images” section,
Image Swirl sorts results into several stacks of images, with the most
relevant results on the top of each stack. This makes for less image
repetition in results, compared with regular image searches. These stacks of
images come in handy in cases where one word has two meanings, so users can
select the one that represents what they’re searching for. Image Swirl also
can be used to discover images of a place or thing that you didn’t originally
associate with the search term. By clicking on the top image in a stack, users
can see a diagram of the main image positioned in a center circle and related
images connected by lines that resemble bicycle spokes. Selecting one image
pulls it to the center of the circle and repositions its surrounding photos. A
search for “Robert Downey, Jr.” displayed several stacks—each topped with
different images of him. There was a stack of pictures of him dressed as
different movie characters, one of him at movie premieres, and a stack of his
mug-shot arrest photos. Hometown Search Presumably because it’s an experiment,
Image Swirl doesn’t cover a lot of topics. I typed “Allentown, PA,” the name
of my hometown, into the Image Swirl search box and received a message that
said my query wasn’t included in the demo. Since computer vision algorithms
can make mistakes, Image Swirl can pull up images that aren’t relevant to the
intended search. My search for “George Washington Bridge” pulled up photos of
the bridge at different times of the day from different angles, divided into
stacks. But one photo was of a Marvel Comics character named G.W. Bridge.
Another was of bikes on pavement, a photo from a Web site for “Bike Month NYC”
that mentioned the bridge. While Google’s Image Swirl works well as an image
search engine, Bing Visual Search is a collection of 48 galleries of photos
and is designed to be a data search engine by associating each image with
specific data. For example, a search for “Famous Directors” is sorted
alphabetically. Each image displays data about the person it represents when
you hover over it with a cursor. Steven Spielberg’s image text tells me he’s
63 years old, directed 26 films and won two Oscars, and that his highest
grossing film was “Jurassic Park,” at $919.7 million. A list on the left side
provides categories with which I can narrow the search results. In the case of
the “Famous Directors” gallery, these categories include gender, country of
origin, and what genre he or she is best known for directing. Some of the
Visual Search galleries include digital cameras, dog breeds, world leaders,
top iPhone apps and yoga poses. Each has its own detailed description and
left-side subcategories that can be selected for narrowing down the results.
But these Bing Visual Search categories represent images only from sources
that have teamed up with Bing, like Fox Sports, Billboard and the American
Film Institute. Google searches a larger pool of data from Google Images,
which crawls the entire Web. The Bing Visual Search results have all been pre-
sorted and tagged to associate with a search term. Bing Visual Search is
especially helpful with product searches, since each image has a good deal of
information associated with it, including price, product reviews and brand.
Some items can even be purchased directly from these links. After searching
with either Google Image Swirl or Bing Visual Search, the final click on an
item often takes users to a more text-based Web page, where people can dig
deeper into the details of the searched item, like a plain, text search. But
first seeing an image could help to narrow the field—or expand a search to
include something else that wasn’t originally intended. Augmented Reality For
people looking to take visual search quite literally (without typing any text
at all), mobile devices with built-in cameras can let people point and search
in a different way from either Image Swirl or Visual Search.Thanks to the
integration of augmented reality (AR)—a way of matching real-world photos with
computer-generated images—into mobile apps, users can aim their device at
something and the image can then be used to identify the subject, as well as
details about it. Screenshot of Bing Visual Search I tried three apps on
Google’s Nexus One mobile device and Apple’s (AAPL) iPhone: Google Goggles,
SnapTell and Layar. SnapTell retrieved much search data about two books I
captured in photos. Google Goggles is a visual-search application that works
on phones running Google’s Android operating system. With Goggles, people
could take photos of the outside of a restaurant and learn its name, menu or
read customer reviews. Likewise, snapping a photo of a piece of art will
return details like its title and artist, as well as a Web link to more
information. Google says Goggles will be coming to other mobile platforms in
the future. This technology brings up a potential privacy issue: Could you
some day take a photo of someone and then search for information on that
person? A Google spokesperson says this app has the ability to use facial
recognition with Goggles, but hasn’t launched this feature because it hasn’t
been built into an app that would provide real value for users. The
spokesperson also cites “some important transparency and consumer-choice
issues we need to think through.” A Walk With the Beatles SnapTell
(http://snaptell.com/apps) is another app that uses AR on Android devices as
well as Apple’s iPhone. It allows you to snap a photo of a book, CD, videogame
or DVD, and get information about it. Layar (http://layar.com) is an app that
lets people point their Android devices at locations to get more information.
You could see an on-screen visual of a completed structure by pointing the
camera at a construction site, or look at a representation of the Beatles on
Abbey Road by pointing your phone at the famous crosswalk. If you’re a visual
thinker and you work well by seeing illustrations of the things for which you
search, Bing Virtual Search or Google Image Swirl might help. Or consider
using an app with your mobile device that takes advantage of AR technology if
you want fast information about something while you’re on the go. As all of
these products improve, they’ll include more categories and images to aid
online explorations. Edited by Walter S. Mossberg. Email
mossbergsolution@wsj.com Tagged with Abbey Road, algorithm, American Film
Institute, Android, Apple, apps, AR, augmented reality, Beatles, Billboard,
Bing, Bing Virtual Search, brand, CD, computer, computer-generated images,
consumer choice, digital, digital camera, DVD, entertainment, films, Fox
Sports, Google, Google Goggles, Google Labs, hardware, Image Swirl, images,
Internet, iPhone, Jurassic Park, Layar, Microsoft, movie, music, Nexus One,
operating system, Oscar, photos, price, privacy issue, product review, query
data, results page, search, search engine, SnapTell, software, tagged, text,
transparency, video, videogame, Visual Search, Web You’ve Come a Long Way,
Silicon Valley December 17, 2013 at 3:47 pm PT Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer
Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup December 10, 2013 at 3:15 pm PT
Oh, the Places Your Phone Will Find December 03, 2013 at 3:14 pm PT Xbox One:
Digital Home Base for the Living Room November 26, 2013 at 3:25 pm PT An iPad
That’s Mini in Screen Size Only November 19, 2013 at 3:06 pm PT Search the
Mossberg Archives AllThingsD contains an archive of columns by Walt Mossberg
and Katherine Boehret from The Wall Street Journal dating back to 2005. Latest
Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
subsection&query;=Mossberg+Solution Search » Walt Mossberg’s Product Guides
Desktop PC’s and Laptops The Laptops to Buy Digital Cameras Digital Cameras
Improve Zooms, HD Function Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say Goodbye and
We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and the Corrosion
of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe All the Crazy
Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View all today’s news
» Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews
Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren Goode in Product
Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System Offers Better Backup
Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data Beamed to Your Phone
Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A Solid Windows Tablet
in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all reviews » AllThingsD by
Writer Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and
opinion on technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other
sites in this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different
topics, different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us »
Contact Us » Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms
of Service » Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily
Headlines Email » Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential
figures in technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All
Things Digital. » D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on
Twitter: Select Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple)
@ATDgoogle (Google) @ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews
(Reviews) @waltmossberg (Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher)
@JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski) @kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka
(Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried) @LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik
Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha
(Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News
Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology
Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John
Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl
Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones &
Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile Version