Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
5/6/2013 9:00AM Apps That Teach Kids to Code Hoping to raise the next
Zuckerberg or just want to introduce computer programming to your child's
elementary education? Here are some iPad apps that will help teach your kids
the fundamentals of coding. Transcript This transcript has been automatically
generated and may not be 100% accurate.I ... the receipt ... pretty much ...
it's ... capitalizing on this are some app makers to create apps team to
teaching kids had a colleague on the act ... I'm Lauren Goode reporter for
AllThingsD and for my reviews on this week I took a look into these apps
Global hopscotch ... both the right tax in their poetry to down ... and there
is a teaching young kids the basics of programming including how to think
logically NetApp perform a function ... for the sickle of hopscotch which is
that the app store last month ... this app which is the index it's a channel
there ... is a ... visual programming language created at nights he called
scraps ... after you choose my niece and characters that actually are ... the
allows users to Draghi's visual blocks of ... outlets ... and whether it's a
movement or teaching or functions that is leaving a trail or working on the
steps ... into the script over here ... Newcrest player you can tap the ads
actually see the pack ... and a cartoon character performs the function
concert tickets to ... and from there you can continue to build on its facts
... or even Syria project and start anew ... I like hopscotch a lot ... of
that cheers me on for the at this point but I mean you be my comes to cutting
and the app was fun and easy to use ... and learns that a six and they need to
know for sure her ... in their ties any errors thou an because the opposite
happened the other which is something to see the execution here ... in real
time ... Argentine point where Scott Brown but once they figured out I hadn't
pretends hopscotch ... cool on the other hand was simpler which makes sense
because its knack for younger kids kids in kindergarten to second for it ...
it's more of an team hopscotch with varying levels that increase in difficulty
as you progress ... the goal of Cordoba listing this as volunteer through a
course for me is ... an Anya Martin together ... is ego is ... any progress on
the next level ... the story is for arbitrary but the important part of this
team is that teaches kids to apply logic and selecting which era is go into
business concept here at last to make the fund on ... a few meager on the key
stops and you must go back to figure out during its staff ... so took on a
courting App exactly it's a stretch but it teaches kids the fundamentals for
software programming ... so if you think your kid might view we can get
worried and you just want to add some programming education ... curriculum of
hops onto Global are expecting a ... profit in the morning ... I ... Up Next
Editor Picks 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is
the December Job Report Good News for President Trump? 1/4/2019 2:23 The Main
Reasons for Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon
Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More → Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy
Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 The new
Democratic-controlled House elected Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House on
Thursday amid a battle with President Trump over border-wall funding. Photo:
Getty 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM
3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM
1:43 Trump Sticks to Border Wall Demands as Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM
24:45 Safe Haven: One Family's Journey After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018
3:24PM More → More → Moving Upstream 9:56 Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-
Wheeled Solution to Traffic and Sabbath 12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental
companies are hitting speed bumps in the U.S. over safety and other concerns.
But in Tel Aviv, one in 10 residents has rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city
appears to be embracing them. WSJ’s Jason Bellini takes a look at the
challenges and potential lessons of the e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the
World’s First Test-Tube Steak 12/11/2018 5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive
Diabetics to Take Extreme Measures 12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition
Tech Aims to Identify Good and Evil 11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of
Flight: AI in the Cockpit 11/12/2018 5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is
the December Job Report Good News For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government
released a blockbuster jobs report despite a trade war with China and a
partial government shutdown. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains what this report
means for President Trump. Photo: Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s
Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42 Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone
It 1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019
5:49PM 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S.
1/3/2019 9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019
11:52AM 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives
1/3/2019 4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit
1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address?
1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43
Didn't Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity
12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content 11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now
She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing violence from her hometown in Honduras,
Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands of miles with her daughter to the Mexico
- U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall Street Journal followed her as she weighed
her options to cross into the U.S., hoping to leave behind her past.
Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle to Keep a Son's Promise
12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence Stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China Manipulate Amazon
12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in the Restaurant
Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The
Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 DeepSense,
based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence to assess
job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest to
Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition Spurs
Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On