WSJ WSJ Live Live Realtor Realtor Mansion Global Mansion Global Barron's
Barron's WSJ+ WSJ+ More BigCharts Financial News Professor Journal Student
Journal Virtual Stock Exchange WSJ Classifieds WSJ Classroom WSJ Wine
AllThingsD News Reviews Mobile Media Social Enterprise Commerce Voices
Conferences Video Follow Us View by Writer Trending — You Say Goodbye and We
Say Hello Kara Swisher ethics statement bio e-mail RSS Follow @karaswisher
Recent Posts by Kara Swisher Yahapocalypse Now? Q4 Results, Proxy Fight, Board
Hijinks and Asia Solution Combine for Busy Month for Yahoo. January 9, 2012 at
1:12 pm PT Tweet Share Print If you thought things were going to quiet down
with Yahoo now that it has installed new CEO Scott Thompson in place, think
again! That’s because of a very unusual — well, to be fair, unusual for most
companies, but not for perpetually storm-tossed Yahoo — confluence of
important events about to take place all at once over the next six weeks. And,
like a very dicey game of corporate Jenga, each has the ability to upend and
impact the other significantly, either for the good or, well, for the bad.
Here are the four horsemen of the possible Yahapocalypse, all riding into town
very soon: Q4 Results: Yahoo will report its fourth quarter earnings on
January 24th, after the markets close. While sources said the company has
managed to turn around what was looking like a first-class disaster, it’s
still not going to be a pretty picture when it comes to advertising growth,
consumer engagement and other key metrics. Simply put, Yahoo needs to show
investors a fast-growing business. Instead, sources said the Q4 results will
likely come in at the bottom of the expected range, which should be
unimpressive, even though this has been business as usual at Yahoo for some
time. If Google and others have strong reports, of course, it will make the
situation worse. Along with goosing its ad business again, Yahoo needs to spur
innovation and intro some cool new products in new arenas to make Silicon
Valley and others perk up. Proxy Fight?: Weak results will give a nice lift to
potential efforts by activist investor Daniel Loeb of Third Point — a major
Yahoo shareholder — to wage a proxy fight for control of the company. He’s
already here in Silicon Valley this week searching for possible board members
for an alternate slate of directors. As I wrote earlier today, the earliest
nominations for directors can be submitted is February 24. Loeb then has a
month after that to submit a competing roster. Worse for Yahoo, many of
Yahoo’s major investors are mulling backing Loeb if he initiates a battle for
control of the company. There’s no doubt that Loeb is and means to be a thorn
in Yahoo’s side — he already made a lot of noise about its consideration of
partial investments from private equity firms, due to low share prices — until
major changes take place at the company. And by major, Loeb’s intent seems to
be along these baseball lines: Throw the bums out! Board in Flux: Speaking of
the board, it’s not the pretty picture of solidarity as you might think.
Actually, no one in their right mind thinks that. This board is about as
dysfunctional as they come. (It’s like that group on “American Horror Story,”
minus the bald dwarf in the basement.) Right now, several sources report,
various factions are jockeying over which board members go and which stay. The
Wall Street Journal reported last week on a formal search for new board
members to replace outgoing ones, but it’s much more complex than just that.
While some departures seem most obvious — longtime board members Vyomesh
Joshi, Arthur Kern and Gary Wilson — the really interesting part will be the
possible exit of Chairman Roy Bostock. While it now is more of a when rather
than an if, many sources report, how it goes down is the key part of the move.
And who will be the chairman then will be the big conundrum — either an
internal candidate, such as David Kenny, or a fresh-eyed outsider. Another
question mark: Whether co-founder Jerry Yang could also move along off the
board with Bostock. While Internet company founders usually stick on boards,
it’s not a given, especially with all the turmoil at Yahoo, some of which is
related to Yang. For now, make no mistake, Bostock is still in charge of the
board and Yang is the only real power behind that power, despite the recent
influence of director Brad Smith. But, with all the pressure by shareholders,
some sources suggest that it might finally be time for some significant change
at the board level, starting with the pair most associated with all its
troubles. Or, um, not. If there is going to be any action at all, expect it
before February 24th — when Loeb can start making real trouble. Asian
Solution: A lot of the above hinges on whether Bostock and Yang can deliver
the promise of a deal with its long disgruntled Asian partners, Alibaba Group
and SoftBank. The trio is now engaged on negotiations about a tax-free deal,
in which Yahoo would sell back some of its stakes in its Asian properties and
get money and other operating assets in return. While it’s good news that the
talks are finally proceeding with some level of normal functionality, it’s
still a complex situation and one with a lot of outstanding questions. Most
important: Which operating assets will be bought in the deal to hand over to
Yahoo? And also, what will the valuations be? Sources close to the situation
said that the talks remain slow-going and frustrating — “The stop-and-go of
all time,” joked one person involved. But they are moving forward, which is no
small thing when it comes to these three. That’s critical for Yahoo, which can
ill afford to disappoint shareholders if no lucrative, cash-rich deal happens
in Asia. And, it needs to happen before Loeb can act on a proxy fight too,
since a successful end to its Asian issues will negate his momentum
dramatically. Oh Yeah, Running the Core Business Stuff: As usual, a full and
fraught month for Yahoo and its directors, who have other things to do, I
assume. But not me and not new CEO Thompson. By the way, the former eBay exec
will presumably be very busy doing some significant rejiggering of the core
Yahoo business in the meantime. Could that mean a new product direction for
Yahoo, for example, around data? Could it mean a passel of new execs? Could it
mean layoffs? Or, could it mean Thompson will finally solve the ultimate
sword-in-the-stone question: What is Yahoo? And that, in the end, will be the
real victory. Tagged with: activist, advertising, Alibaba Group, American
Horror Story, Arthur Kern, Asian, asset, board, Brad Smith, consumer, Daniel
Loeb, director, earnings, eBay, engagement, event, fourth quarter, Gary
Wilson, Google, growth, investor, Jerry Yang, metric, negotiation,
negotiations, proxy fight, Q4, report, results, Roy Bostock, Scott Thompson,
shareholder, Silicon Valley, Slate, SoftBank, solution, The Wall Street
Journal, Third Point, Vyomesh Joshi, Yahapocalypse, Yahoo You Say Goodbye and
We Say Hello December 31, 2013 at 2:00 pm PT Some of Our Fave D Conference
Videos Before AllThingsD Signs Off in 3 … 2 … 1 … December 31, 2013 at 12:24
pm PT How Can You Miss Us if We Won’t Go Away? Paczkowski and Swisher
Highlights From AllThingsD. December 30, 2013 at 7:48 am PT Viral Video: Even
Jerry Seinfeld Has a Drone. What’s With That? December 30, 2013 at 4:29 am PT
The Longish Goodbye: Highlights From AllThingsD Staffers Johnson, Del Rey and
Cha December 28, 2013 at 2:40 pm PT Latest Video View all videos » api-
video/find_all_videos.asp&fields;=id,videoStillURL,thumbnailURL,guid,video320kMP4Url,name,duration&count;=4&doctype;=128&type;=allthingsd-
section&query;=BoomTown Search » Featured Posts Featured Reviews You Say
Goodbye and We Say Hello Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher in Media The NSA and
the Corrosion of Silicon Valley Michael Dearing in Voices You Won’t Believe
All the Crazy Hardware the NSA Uses for Spying Arik Hesseldahl in News View
all today’s news » Uncovering a More Useful Android Lock Screen Bonnie Cha in
Product Reviews Lenovo’s Bendy Yoga 2 Laptop Makes All the Right Moves Lauren
Goode in Product Reviews Space Monkey Peer-to-Peer Digital Storage System
Offers Better Backup Katherine Boehret in The Digital Solution Diabetes Data
Beamed to Your Phone Walt Mossberg in Personal Technology Nokia Lumia 2520: A
Solid Windows Tablet in Need of Apps Bonnie Cha in Product Reviews View all
reviews » There was a worry before I started this that I was going to burn
every bridge I had. But I realize now that there are some bridges that are
worth burning.— Valleywag editor Sam Biddle AllThingsD by Writer Walt Mossberg
Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter Kafka Ina Fried Liz
Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha Jason Del Rey
AllThingsD.com is a Web site devoted to news, analysis and opinion on
technology, the Internet and media. But it is different from other sites in
this space. It is a fusion of different media styles, different topics,
different formats and different sources. Read more » About Us » Contact Us »
Comments Policy » Cookies Policy » Privacy Policy » FAQ » Terms of Service »
Your Ad Choices » Advertise With Us » Send a Tip » Daily Headlines Email »
Follow AllThingsD Your Way » Featuring the most influential figures in
technology, unscriptedand upfront. More » Conferences: D: All Things Digital.
» D: Dive Into Media » D: Dive Into Mobile » Follow us on Twitter: Select
Account @allthingsd (All Things Digital) @ATDapple (Apple) @ATDgoogle (Google)
@ATDmedia (Media) @ATDmobile (Mobile) @ATDreviews (Reviews) @waltmossberg
(Walt Mossberg) @karaswisher (Kara Swisher) @JohnPaczkowski (John Paczkowski)
@kabster728 (Katherine Boehret) @pkafka (Peter Kafka) @inafried (Ina Fried)
@LizGannes (Liz Gannes) @ahess247 (Arik Hesseldahl) @LaurenGoode (Lauren
Goode) @MikeIsaac (Mike Isaac) @BonnieSCha (Bonnie Cha) @DelRey (Jason Del
Rey) RSS Feeds Select Feed All Feeds News Reviews Mobile Media Social
Enterprise Commerce Voices Personal Technology Mossberg’s Mailbox The Digital
Solution Walt Mossberg Kara Swisher John Paczkowski Katherine Boehret Peter
Kafka Ina Fried Liz Gannes Arik Hesseldahl Lauren Goode Mike Isaac Bonnie Cha
Jason Del Rey © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company Inc. All Rights Reserved. Mobile
Version