Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
1/15/2013 3:00PM Brett Bullington Talks About Brain Injury Recovery Kara
Swisher interviews longtime Silicon Valley investor and exec Brett Bullington
about the recovery from his recent brain injury from a bike accident,
including his plans for the future after surgery. Transcript This transcript
has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.... okay ...
eleven tripling ten ... the man himself ... threat ... to us ... don't don't
know where you don't know where the knowledge and write exactly so you don't
have surgery to fix that aren't there ... Thursday morning the morning go and
surgery ... but to start back to my ... right ... hand of your original
scholar Edward that go ... on ... this story somewhere ... it was stored away
... that they don't think it's a message that I can I say it's a new pieces in
the stinking Itanium skull cracked mention was made ... in the end of ... this
protest Itanium buses and to be some mystery of this to go ... into new but it
has ... the ... effect of ... theirs ... right and then using a hostel a few
days correct yes oh please few days ... and then no let me out because I'll
... get better quick ... yes and hopefully ... but had the success that had so
far ... things and just to improve the tone ... of the safer ... bet on it ...
where the Helena beating out the rest of you have ... protection case the fall
and is permanent ... so ... hopefully will be much more safer ... he stayed
around and be more flexible all right ... is you should read the rate now
because carriers up ... so ... you're you're incredibly mobile now and
speaking well on everything out they like it last made errors are not thinking
that's the case I kept telling him indeed you are doing incredibly well
considering the injuries sustained ... yet to ... fill a and B she supported
the surge of friends and family ... care even fantastic thank you and ... my
family's been awesome ... make use of really ... don't want to help help help
... he had a Fed rate doctors and support people to help me through all the
stuff ... says the good thing ... the blossoms through all ... and a much
better than ... standalone tool than just a yes or no it's amazing and
especially in terms as the recent hospital ... it's just astonishing
difference and in the way you been doing ... so what what are you looking to
you after or afterwards or honey feel about the whole experience that the big
thing on the water bottle is thank the people who helped me in ... this
process ... I really wanna build ... a ... new thing and really learn alot to
... us is ... the impact it's had on my family kids ... the twenty year old
son and step up and do a lot ... I said you know the owner ... has done a lot
of stuff ... to get into college ... well the fellows nonvoting and so ... so
this so ... but I hope to do is ... is you really can ... spend more time with
family ... friends ... and really think people for all the support ... they've
given me so far is the link ... below that support is helpful I ... in terms
of ... getting better ... with AIDS research medical on Tuesday breaking of
the social media team now and ... even setting I e mails that people who were
surprised to see you ... coming even super active doing that and what has that
impacted you in to get me the impact on ... the lines and on Facebook ... and
sending e mails into the responses you know some people ... some people saw me
... when I was in misery ... though the home of ... an intention here in
California ... and some medical professionals ... who summing early in D C now
walking and talking ... and I'm really impressive ability to lock in row ...
right consider shirt in that time to meet the partners ... that may have been
wanting to ... write and how you can you imagine getting back an investor you
view the act investors active Internet ... player in the Valley in South ...
east of Baquba they get back into thinking you're interested in what you think
I want is weakening and that of a giant step back ... it is focused on
something really wanted to get ... but I really like doing it and love were
... largely yesterday an awesome about ten different companies ... running and
so ... I love working ... hours of work with companies love ... and really
enjoyed all its ... work with venture capitalists ... its overt and planned to
... sell an organ that going forward ... will help ... with my brain
development going forward ... and that the only ... physical development going
forward ... subtle to be doing more of that stuff so I I think I've been
successful in so far ... I like doing it ... Alex relationships to build ...
something ... will things will come out of it ... will be somewhat different
going forward ... analysts in the light yet ... he suggested that ... the
thing I really wanted to ... thank the people of hell ... really huge ...
write to my family ... and heaven seventeen over twenty years ... to ... make
great gifts ... costly right ... right I think it really ... try to do that
over the last ten years ... no one wanna make sure you more that going forward
... and if the new I even didn't pay attention to it and see as their next
effort ... could care less ... and maintain that much attention to ... the and
then ... I just haven't had an idea to write rotate Into is much is nice to
... um and so the seventeenth agents to set the ... trend was sent to by
friends ... and associates it's a nice that ... British agents this is an
interesting ... had planned to be really good distance or reaching a just and
right wing writes me thinking about stuff ... and I never really deposit yet
if you didn't know everything that was like the year with a font of all of us
pepper may help me figure stuff out ... hopes of going forward I can finally
make that happen and I think it will happen in ... just the ... thing a figure
that I'm getting what you know where age nothing changes to say now ... and
... lessening ... by medical professionals ... almost all of a cent ... don't
push things too far too fast ... but things happens logical way ramp and
watchful time ... can ... grow into it when you're ready for ... this late Mr.
walking ... didn't say don't don't ... watch again why ... do it that star
perfectly uniform for just just make sure you're just ... walking ... they
wonder why more actively teach her a balance on the stock is more important in
writing ... is more important making sure ... the distance in miles excellent
wait and watch couple weeks but wanted to a loss of ... one point three ...
miles ... and when it was to face but my comments with ... no job loss or
walking ten miles next ... yes it's it's time to do is to back up a little bit
... get acclimated and yet each report ... so I'm not pushing things too much
... because it helps a lot of charm and sheer que Hanssen Arena in October a
bike it's never a ... um ... unknown ... to her early January so it's like ...
you know I don't need to ... make up for ... lost ... time due to the passage
stamped you and miss lunch line while fantastic bread ... the surgery ... and
a integrates ... and that we look for it to all kinds of great things in the
future with the spinach cherry really wanna thank you while your good friend
Brett near great guy ... and ten so impressed by everything you've done your
whole career and now ... anyway thanks so much and again ... were also grow on
trees for the surgery and we know we will ... see you in fine shape ... that
very soon after when one of things that I barely was ... too important to
think ... I think ... one of things that it's been really good for me it's ...
been open on Facebook write an open the ball in right in explaining things GDP
that's the way people ... disorder ... is a great way of ... engaging large
number of people ... dead ... and and and and and one-on-one bass absolutely
receptive does this mean doesn't plan to get ... them I think people who
really ... done a lot of ... hoops and accept ... the teachings and right ...
and sometimes ending up ... in the dust ... and it's best ... to appreciate
... although all the support and all of the ... African people put into exile
... I am briefly too many emails that that's okay ... transcendental yet you'd
probably have loved him and didn't think rematch ... Up Next Editor Picks 1:42
Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job
Report Good News for President Trump? 1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for
Apple’s Revenue Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing,
Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019 More → Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is
Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-
controlled House elected Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid
a battle with President Trump over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56
Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What
Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump
Sticks to Border Wall Demands as Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe
Haven: One Family's Journey After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More →
More → Moving Upstream 9:56 Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution
to Traffic and Sabbath 12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are
hitting speed bumps in the U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel
Aviv, one in 10 residents has rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to
be embracing them. WSJ’s Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and
potential lessons of the e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-
Tube Steak 12/11/2018 5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take
Extreme Measures 12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to
Identify Good and Evil 11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the
Cockpit 11/12/2018 5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job
Report Good News For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a
blockbuster jobs report despite a trade war with China and a partial
government shutdown. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for
President Trump. Photo: Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue
Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42 Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It
1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM
3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019
9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28
Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019
4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019
6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019
5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't
Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity
12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content 11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now
She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing violence from her hometown in Honduras,
Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands of miles with her daughter to the Mexico
- U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall Street Journal followed her as she weighed
her options to cross into the U.S., hoping to leave behind her past.
Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle to Keep a Son's Promise
12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence Stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China Manipulate Amazon
12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in the Restaurant
Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The
Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 DeepSense,
based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence to assess
job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest to
Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition Spurs
Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On