Watch a Demo Log in | Register Products Products Moab Cloud HPC Suite Moab
Cloud/NODUS Cloud Bursting Nitro High ThroughputTORQUE The HPC Suite
Accounting ManagerGridPowerRemote VisualizationReporting and
AnalyticsViewpoint Portal Solutions Verticals CommercialFinancialOil and
GasManufacturingGovernment and Academic How Can We Help You Speed and
ScaleUser ProductivityCollaborationCost Reduction and EfficiencyService
GuaranteesJust Make it Work Cross-Platform Solutions Partners Technology
PartnersResellers/IntegratorsIndustry Partners Services TrainingProfessional
Services Support Customer SupportTechnical Support – InformationDownload
Center Eval/Demo RequestMoab Cloud HPC SuiteNitroDocker IntegrationTORQUE
Support / Docs Submit Support CaseDocumentationEOL Policy Company Our
Customers Customer Profiles News and Events EventsIn The News Company Overview
Company HistoryManagement Team Tech Talk VideosDemos Contact Us
CareersInformation Request Demo/EvalHome » Partners » Cloud Technology
PartnersCloud Technology Partners TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS HP Cloud Service
Automation is the industry’s most comprehensive, unified management solution,
offering application and infrastructure provisioning for private cloud, public
cloud, and hybrid IT services. HP Cloud Service Automation provides advanced
provisioning and management of applications and infrastructure with industry
best practice templates, a self-service portal and service catalog, a highly
flexible architecture with advanced workload optimization and metering,
service assurance, application lifecycle management, security, and compliance.
HP Cloud Service Automation leverages the capabilities of the Moab
intelligence engine to enable advanced workload management capabilities as
well as showback and chargeback. For more information, download the white
paper on Moab Cloud Suite – HP CSA Edition dynamic workload management for HP
Cloud Service Automation or visit www.hp.com/go/csa. Moab Cloud Suite – HP CSA
edition, is available with HP CSA through HP and its partners. IBM has helped
thousands of clients adopt cloud models and manages millions of cloud-based
transactions every day. IBM assists clients in areas as diverse as banking,
communications, healthcare and government to build their own clouds or
securely tap into IBM cloud-based business and infrastructure services. IBM is
unique in bringing together key cloud technologies, deep process knowledge, a
broad portfolio of cloud solutions, and a network of global delivery centers.
For more information, visit www.ibm.com/smartcloud. NetApp creates innovative
storage and data management solutions that deliver outstanding cost efficiency
and accelerate business breakthroughs. Our commitment to living our core
values and consistently being recognized as a great place to work around the
world are fundamental to our long-term rowth and success, as well as the
success of our pathway partners and customers. Discover our passion for
helping companies around the world go further, faster at www.netapp.com. Red
Hat®, the world’s leading open source and Linux® provider, is headquartered in
Raleigh, NC, with satellite offices worldwide. Red Hat is leading Linux and
open source solutions into the mainstream by making high-quality, low-cost
technology accessible. To learn more, visit www.redhat.com. VMware is the
leader in virtualization and cloud infrastructure solutions that enable
businesses to thrive in the Cloud Era. Customers rely on VMware to help them
transform the way they build, deliver and consume Information Technology
resources in a manner that is evolutionary and based on their specific needs.
With 2011 revenues of $3.77 billion, VMware has more than 400,000 customers
and 55,000 partners. The company is headquartered in Silicon Valley with
offices throughout the world and can be found online at www.vmware.com.
EXPLORETechnology Partners Resellers/Integrators Industry Partners © 2019
Adaptive Computing, Inc. Legal Notices Privacy Policy Security Advisory
Contact Us