Home Browse Topics Series Events From Sponsors WSJ.com Search Now Playing
4/1/2013 9:00AM Want to Get Files Off Old Floppies? Here's How. Floppy disks
have gone to the tech graveyard, but you might still have some lying around --
without a floppy drive in sight. AllThingsD's Lauren Goode explores some
options for getting in touch with your long-lost floppy files. Transcript This
transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.... I
why I reporter contest for all things a bang for my call was the guy decided
to move away from modern day technology like tablets and smartphones and apps
and Web services ... at last from the pass ... happy about ... the floppy disk
... now what what they doing with the floppy disk ... I've that this pilot is
here at my desk from back when I was using an old Gateway ... and later on or
Compaq desktop computer and now that my laptop is an emptiness Lacy I no
longer have a floppy disk drive and kissing me you don't either so this the
this is a lot of different options for getting your files of your old floppy
disk drives and they came up a treat for me is the ... belief he found
something situation impasse ... maybe this will help you the first batch is
the case or to do this for you ... I found him online and seam treatments and
insight into the first one is called retro floppy in the second one is called
simply Floppy disc ... that also operates is something called is cheaper ...
but Sir Richard floppy this is the time I hear Oliver Carolina in the next
tackle files from three point five assists and five and a quarter inch discs
... I guess that's ... just because charges Tennessee price is six eighty five
for instance extraction ... the ASA Chief authentic reform minded disc surgery
if your puppy has created an ... analyst at the time to find compatible
software and get ... conversions for you address the pop yet when I was back
in a few days now so I know this ... is this even files on ... the floppy disk
dot com conference is based in Southern California church the more reasonable
price of one ninety five for its three point five inch floppy disk a second
thought this race and myriad than ... on ... up to six ninety five that that
will depend on whether you send in really older specialty desks ... and the
flooding is not coming out my files back duty in just over a day in the
following week I might get sent back to me along with the USB flash drive ...
with my files on ... unfortunately no one of my discs was deemed unreadable
... and then as I mentioned before ... software compatibility could be an
issue for example a handsome old final draft screenplay files on the spot the
best ... and while the Services Islands you're able to get the files offered
me ... I have a draft supper my laptop crabby so I still was unable to open
those documents ... that sickly old Microsoft word documents and old Statement
Photos Enel PDX and things like that I could go and ... now ... another chance
to buy an external hard drive yourself ... when this ... year ... I actually
got this one off the Floppy disc stock on for twenty five dollars this is an
old Dell external hard drive its platinum age computer via USB ... if I is for
pretty cheap on Amazon dot com e Bay ... I just made sure that the region and
floppy disks you have and make sure that compatible with your current
operating suspends the ... end of the disk reader that can read your puppy is
lastly there's the library ... PCCW Rebuts ... well some men still has ample
old computer systems that are available to the public were to BlackBerry
numbers and the benefits of this is that some of those computers so ... floppy
disks giants so I called around him bolting from libraries and it turns out
that loving your public library and Washington DC public library ... you can
share Suspends and a floppy disk drives anymore ... the Boston Public Library
actually dies the San Francisco public Library will let people with my keys
... check out an external try it on to use the library for a period of time
due to ... access and rebuild files on so this is just a little research if
you really don't mind spending money on this ... call ... your local libraries
and see if they might have a computer system that's well below that you can
use them ... so hopefully you found this helpful if you do have a high-level
puppy sitting around in my as a cop than these for state and city at its peak
... I learned of AllThingsD and a Up Next Editor Picks 1:42 Fed Chairman
Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 2:15 Is the December Job Report Good
News for President Trump? 1/4/2019 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue
Shortfall 1/3/2019 3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry
With U.S. 1/3/2019 More → Editor Picks 1:28 Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of
the House of Representatives 1/3/2019 The new Democratic-controlled House
elected Nancy Pelosi as speaker of the House on Thursday amid a battle with
President Trump over border-wall funding. Photo: Getty 2:56 Businesses Prepare
for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019 6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From
Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019 5:30AM 1:43 Trump Sticks to Border
Wall Demands as Shutdown Continues 1/2/2019 6:03PM 24:45 Safe Haven: One
Family's Journey After Hurricane Florence 12/31/2018 3:24PM More → More →
Moving Upstream 9:56 Electric Scooters: Israel’s Two-Wheeled Solution to
Traffic and Sabbath 12/20/2018 Electric-scooter rental companies are hitting
speed bumps in the U.S. over safety and other concerns. But in Tel Aviv, one
in 10 residents has rented a Bird e-scooter, and the city appears to be
embracing them. WSJ’s Jason Bellini takes a look at the challenges and
potential lessons of the e-scooter craze. 0:54 Tasting the World’s First Test-
Tube Steak 12/11/2018 5:30AM 9:58 High Insulin Prices Drive Diabetics to Take
Extreme Measures 12/3/2018 5:30AM 9:57 Facial Recognition Tech Aims to
Identify Good and Evil 11/19/2018 5:30AM 9:54 The Future of Flight: AI in the
Cockpit 11/12/2018 5:30AM More → Recommended for you 2:15 Is the December Job
Report Good News For President Trump? 1/4/2019 The government released a
blockbuster jobs report despite a trade war with China and a partial
government shutdown. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib explains what this report means for
President Trump. Photo: Getty 2:23 The Main Reasons for Apple’s Revenue
Shortfall 1/3/2019 8:53PM 1:42 Holtz-Eakin: The Fed Has Not Overdone It
1/4/2019 10:00PM 1:41 The Opposite Sides of the Shutdown Talks 1/4/2019 5:49PM
3:35 China Makes Historic Moon Landing, Boosting Rivalry With U.S. 1/3/2019
9:08AM 1:42 Fed Chairman Powell Won't Resign if Asked 1/4/2019 11:52AM 1:28
Nancy Pelosi Is Elected Speaker of the House of Representatives 1/3/2019
4:40PM 2:56 Businesses Prepare for Prospect of 'No-Deal' Brexit 1/3/2019
6:00AM 3:19 What Did We Learn From Kim Jong Un's New Year Address? 1/3/2019
5:30AM 1:04 Trump Slams Mattis Over Afghanistan 1/2/2019 5:07PM 4:43 Didn't
Get the Job? The Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity
12/30/2018 7:00AM More → Featured Content 11:59 Violence Made Her Flee. Now
She’s at the Border 12/28/2018 Fleeing violence from her hometown in Honduras,
Gabriela Rodriguez traveled thousands of miles with her daughter to the Mexico
- U.S. border in Tijuana. The Wall Street Journal followed her as she weighed
her options to cross into the U.S., hoping to leave behind her past.
Photo/Video: Jake Nicol/WSJ 6:30 The Struggle to Keep a Son's Promise
12/31/2018 7:00AM 9:35 What Trump Did to Silence Stormy Daniels and Karen
McDougal 11/9/2018 12:33PM 8:53 How Scammers in China Manipulate Amazon
12/17/2018 5:55AM 9:18 Chefs Speak Out on Mental Health in the Restaurant
Industry 11/12/2018 12:28PM More → More → Tech 4:43 Didn't Get the Job? The
Robots May Not Have Liked Your Social Media Activity 12/30/2018 DeepSense,
based in San Francisco and New Delhi, uses artificial intelligence to assess
job candidates’ personalities based on their social media accounts. WSJ’s
Jason Bellini tested the tool. 9:39 Cold Pursuits: A Scientist's Quest to
Uncover Antarctica's Secrets 12/29/2018 12:00PM 3:26 Facial Recognition Spurs
Privacy Concerns, Even Among Its Creators 12/24/2018 10:59AM 2:40 Easy
Upgrades for Your Family's TV 12/23/2018 8:30AM 4:59 Where Amazon Reviews
Really Come From 12/20/2018 8:50AM More → More → Life & Culture 2:21 The
Secret to World Famous Carrot Cake (Hint: Jail) 12/25/2018 This Christmas at
the Rikers Island jail complex, inmates and the staff are looking forward to a
special treat from the jails’ bakery. We went inside. Photo: Natalia V.
Osipova/The Wall Street Journal 4:21 Three Boys Explain Why They Play Fortnite
Every Chance They Get 12/21/2018 8:00AM 4:03 Your Home Needs a Robot Vacuum
12/16/2018 8:30AM 3:43 Lab-Grown Meat Prompts Rabbis to Consider the
Impossible: Kosher Bacon 12/14/2018 3:36PM 4:32 'Beam Me Up, Scotty:' A 'Star
Trek' Home in Silicon Valley 12/6/2018 10:00AM More → More → Sponsored 2:21
Sponsored Am I Doing What I Love? 9/22/2016 11:59PM 1:00 Sponsored Golf's Data
Revolution 9/9/2016 2:16PM 1:30 Sponsored How Worldly Experiences Can Shape
One's Success 1/24/2018 27:34 Sponsored Creating the Future Workforce
1/17/2017 3:39PM More → More → Marketwatch, Moneyish and Barron's 2:30 How
automated digital payroll will change the way employees get paid 1/3/2019
Here's how the 'consumerization' of payroll could affect when and how you
receive your paycheck. 3:56 When a couple with opposite attitudes about money
buys a house 1/3/2019 7:00AM 3:18 AI could transform the world. Here's what's
holding it back 1/2/2019 7:03AM 1:06 A personality test expert assesses
Hillary Clinton and Warren Buffett 1/2/2019 7:00AM 3:09 Why the banking
industry will spend $100bn in cloud services by 2019 12/28/2018 7:10AM More →
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network WSJ.com WSJ Video MarketWatch.com
Barrons.com BigCharts.com Virtual Stock Exchange About About Content
Partnerships Advertising Advertise Locally Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Data
Policy Your Ad Choices Copyright Policy Tools Tablet Edition Podcasts RSS
Feeds WSJ on Twitter WSJ on Facebook Help Help Customer Service Contact Us
Global Support WSJ Podcasts ViewWSJ Videoon WSJ Video Home Topics Browse
Videos Programs Events Content from Sponsors View WSJ Video On