News Apple CEO's Latest Playlist: "We Are the Champions," "Winner Takes it
All," "Only One Winner" Published on August 6, 2008 by John Paczkowski Despite
the best efforts of Wal-Mart (WMT), Best Buy (BBY), Amazon (AMZN), and Target
(TGT), Apple’s iTunes Store has managed to maintain its iPod white-knuckled
grip on the U.S. music market. According to a survey by market research
company NPD, Apple dominated the retail music market in the first half of
2008, selling more music from January to June of this year than any of its
rivals–including those selling both CDs and a-la-carte digital music
downloads. NPD’s top five U.S. music retailers: iTunes Wal-Mart (Wal-Mart,
Walmart.com, Walmart Music Downloads) Best Buy (Best Buy, Bestbuy.com, Best
Buy Digital Music Store) Amazon (Amazon.com, AmazonMP3.com) Target (Target,
Target.com) NPD’s latest metrics, incidentally, also show Amazon MP3 rising to
fourth place from fifth, and perhaps heading upward from there. “We expect
Apple will consolidate its lead in the retail music market, as CD sales
continue to slow,” said Russ Crupnick, entertainment industry analyst for NPD.
“Amazonâs CD buyers tend to be older, so they havenât abandoned the CD
format to the extent seen in the average music buyer. Plus, Amazonâs
successful introduction of its digital download store will help the company
improve its position in the future.” And no doubt improve Apple’s (AAPL)
position as well. After all, how much digital music purchased on Amazon
ultimately ends up on iPods? Return to: Apple CEO's Latest Playlist: "We Are
the Champions," "Winner Takes it All," "Only One Winner" URL:
http://allthingsd.com/20080806/apple-ceos-latest-playlist-we-are-the-
champions-winner-takes-it-all-only-one-winner/ Brought to you by The Wall
Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.