News After Two Missed Quarters, Can Dell Make Investors Happy at Last?
Published on August 21, 2012 by Arik Hesseldahl Computing and IT giant Dell
will report its quarterly earnings results today, after the markets close for
trading in New York. Investors will get a look at the latest state of play at
Dell on its path to transform itself from a PC-centric company to one that
focuses more on enterprise hardware and services. It has been a busy quarter.
Dell won a $2.4 billion bidding war for Quest Software, and made a key hire to
run the nascent software unit of which Quest will become a part. CEO Michael
Dell has made no secret of the fact that he continues to be on the prowl for
acquisitions. Last quarter wasn’t so good. The company reported its second
earnings miss in a row, and an outlook that was far bleaker than analysts
expected. Since then, Dell shares have been trading below $13 a share. Dell
closed at $12.56 yesterday, up 34 cents, or more than 2 percent. So what are
the analysts expecting today? Revenue that falls slightly short of
expectations, but healthier profit margins. The consensus calls for Dell to
report sales of $14.7 billion, and per-share earnings of 46 cents. Generally
speaking, demand at Dell’s enterprise businesses has probably held up a lot
better than its PC business has, analyst Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. Companies are buying more stuff than
consumers, and servers and storage equipment is more profitable than consumer-
grade PCs, anyway. “Despite weak PC shipments, we believe Dellâs server and
storage revenue was relatively healthy as Dell is off to a good start with the
Romley transition,” he wrote, referring to the code name for the latest
generation of Intel server chip. “As a result, we expect Revenue to miss due
to soft PCs, but mix to shift towards Dellâs higher margin infrastructure
products.” Dell’s gross margin, an important indicator of overall
profitability, will, at 22 percent, be more than a point lower than it was in
the year-ago quarter, Whitmore says, but as cost-cutting measures and a shift
in the overall mix of products sold becomes more profitable, he sees that
improving. Better supplies of hard drives following last year’s shortage
brought about by the flooding in Thailand have also helped, as has a
relatively benign environment on the pricing of components like memory chips.
There’s still a way to go on the turnaround, Whitmore says. He expects Dell to
pare back its earnings outlook for its fiscal year 2013 from $2.13 a share, as
demand slackens ahead of the switch to Microsoft’s Windows 8, which should get
into full swing later this year and into 2013. He says $1.85 a share is a more
realistic profit for fiscal 2013. The good news in PCs: About two-thirds of
Dell’s existing corporate customers are still running Windows XP, meaning
they’re long overdue for an upgrade. Return to: After Two Missed Quarters, Can
Dell Make Investors Happy at Last? URL: http://allthingsd.com/20120821/after-
two-missed-quarters-can-dell-make-investors-happy-at-last/ Brought to you by
The Wall Street Journal | © 2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.