Media The New York Times Reports a Digital Success Story Published on August
6, 2012 by Peter Kafka The New York Times’ pay wall, long debated in and
outside of the company, now looks like a bona fide success. The company has
more than 530,000 paying subscribers for its digital editions, and it credits
the plan with a consistent increase in circulation dollars. Which it needs,
because its ad dollars continue to shrink. Here’s another data point in favor
of the plan: A report fromÂ Barclays analyst Kannan Venkateshwar, who
estimates that the paper will have more digital subscribers than print subs
within a couple of years. The caveats: Even ifÂ Venkateshwar’s projections are
right, the digital subscription story won’t solve all of the Times’ problems.
For starters, each digital customer generates much less revenue than a print
customer: The digital sub pays around $220 a year for the Times, versus
approximately $730 for the paper-and-ink version. And while the profits that
each kind of sub generates for the paper should be roughly equal — because
it’s a whole lot cheaper to produce and deliver a digital copy than a print
one — that only holds true if the Times isn’t overly reliant on discounts to
sell its digital subscriptions. Still,Â Venkateshwar, who has been bullish on
the Times for a while, argues that most of the digital subscribers to date
seem to be new customers. So all of this is incremental revenue. That’s a
best-case scenario for the paper. Return to: The New York Times Reports a
Digital Success Story URL: http://allthingsd.com/20120806/the-new-york-times-
reports-a-digital-success-story/ Brought to you by The Wall Street Journal | ©
2005-2019 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.